1 Peter
topic:memory
=
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ,

To God’s elect, exiles scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia,
Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, who have been chosen according to the 
foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, 
to be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood:

Grace and peace be yours in abundance.
=
Praise be to the God and Father of our 
Lord Jesus Christ! In his great mercy 
he has given us new birth into a living 
hope through the resurrection of 
Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an 
inheritance that can never perish, 
spoil or fade. This inheritance is kept in 
heaven for you, 
=
who through faith are shielded by God’s
power until the coming of the 
salvation that is ready to be revealed in 
the last time. In all this you greatly 
rejoice, though now for a little while you 
may have had to suffer grief in all 
kinds of trials.
=
These have come so that the proven 
genuineness of your faith—of greater
 worth than gold, which perishes even 
though refined by fire—may result in 
praise, glory and honor when Jesus Christ 
is revealed. 
=
Though you have not 
seen him, you love him; and even though 
you do not see him now, you 
believe in him and are filled with an 
inexpressible and glorious joy, for you 
are receiving the end result of your faith, 
the salvation of your souls.
=
Concerning this salvation, the prophets, 
who spoke of the grace that was to 
come to you, searched intently and with 
the greatest care, trying to find 
out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was 
pointing when he predicted the sufferings of the Messiah and the glories that 
would follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving 
themselves but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been told 
you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent 
from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things.
=
Since you call on a Father who judges each
person’s work impartially, live out your time
as foreigners here in reverent fear.
=
For you know that it was not with perishable
things such as silver or gold that you were
redeemed from the empty way of life handed
down to you from your ancestors, 19 but with
the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without
blemish or defect.
=
He was chosen before the creation of the world,
 but was revealed in these last times for your sake.
Through him you believe in God, who raised him
 from the dead and glorified him, and so your 
faith and hope are in God.
=
Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying
the truth so that you have sincere love for each
other, love one another deeply, from the heart.
For you have been born again, not of perishable
seed, but of imperishable, through the living and
enduring word of God.
=
For,
“All people are like grass,
    and all their glory is like the flowers of the field;
the grass withers and the flowers fall,
    but the word of the Lord endures forever.”

And this is the word that was preached to you.
=
Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit,
hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind.
Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk,
so that by it you may grow up in your salvation,
now that you have tasted that the Lord is good.
=
 As you come to him, the living Stone—rejected
by humans but chosen by God and precious to him—
you also, like living stones, are being built into a
spiritual house[a] to be a holy priesthood, offering
spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus
Christ. 
=
For in Scripture it says:
“See, I lay a stone in Zion,
    a chosen and precious cornerstone,
and the one who trusts in him
    will never be put to shame.”
=
 Now to you who believe, this stone is precious.
But to those who do not believe,

“The stone the builders rejected
    has become the cornerstone,”
and,

“A stone that causes people to stumble
    and a rock that makes them fall.”
=
They stumble because they disobey the message—which is also what they were destined for.
=
But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood,
a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you
may declare the praises of him who called you out
of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you 
were not a people, but now you are the people of God;
once you had not received mercy, but now you have
received mercy.

Dear friends, I urge you, as foreigners and exiles, to 
abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against 
your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans 
that, though they accuse you of doing wrong, they 
may see your good deeds and glorify God on the 
day he visits us.
=
13 Submit yourselves for the Lord’s sake to every 
human authority: whether to the emperor, as the 
supreme authority, or to governors, who are sent
by him to punish those who do wrong and to
commend those who do right. For it is God’s will 
that by doing good you should silence the ignorant
talk of foolish people. Live as free people, but do
not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil; live as
God’s slaves. Show proper respect to everyone, love
the family of believers, fear God, honor the emperor.
=
18 Slaves, in reverent fear of God submit yourselves
to your masters, not only to those who are good and
considerate, but also to those who are harsh. For it 
is commendable if someone bears up under the pain
of unjust suffering because they are conscious of God.
But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating for
doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing
good and you endure it, this is commendable before
God. To this you were called, because Christ suffered
for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow
in his steps.
=
“He committed no sin,
    and no deceit was found in his mouth.”
When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate;
when he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he
entrusted himself to him who judges justly.
“He himself bore our sins” in his body on the cross, so
that we might die to sins and live for righteousness;
“by his wounds you have been healed.”
For “you were like sheep going astray,” but now you
have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls..