english|I Chronicles 29:10-11, 13-14||Blessed art Thou, O Lord God of Israel our Father, Forever and ever. Blessed art Thou, O Lord God of Israel our Father, Forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness And the power and the glory And the victory and majesty, Indeed everything that's in the heavens and the earth; Thine is the dominion, O Lord, Thou dost exalt Thyself as head over all. Now therefore, our God we thank Thee, And praise Thy glorious name. Now therefore, our God we thank Thee, And praise Thy glorious name. For all things come from Thee, And from Thy hand we have given Thee. For all things come from Thee, And from Thy hand we have given Thee.|KBC-1
english|I John 1:7||If we walk in the light As He is in the light, We have fellowship With one another. And the blood of Jesus His Son Cleanses us from all sin.|KBC-2
english|I John 4:7-8||Beloved, let us love one another; For love is from God, And everyone that loveth Is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, Knoweth not God, for God is love. Beloved, let us love one another; 1 John 4, 7 and 8.|KBC-3
english|2 Corinthians 5:14-15||For the love of Christ controls us, Having concluded this, That one died for all Therefore all died; For the love of Christ controls us, Having concluded this, That one died for all Therefore all died; And He died for all, He died for all, so That they who live Might no longer live for themselves But for Him who died, For Him who died, And rose again on their behalf.|KBC-4
english|All In All||You are my strength when I am weak You are the treasure that I seek You are my all in all! Seeking You as a precious jewel Lord, to give up I'd be a fool You are my all in all! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name! Taking my sin, my cross, my shame Rising again I bless Your name You are my all in all! When I fall down You pick me up When I am dry you fill my cup You are my all in all!|KBC-5
english|Alpha and Omega||And I heard a great voice Out of heaven say, Behold the tabernacle of God Is with men And He shall be with them And they shall be His people And Almighty God shall be with them. And He shall wipe away the tears From their eyes And there shall be no more death Neither sorrow nor crying And no more pain For the former things Have all passed away. And He that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new" And He said unto me, "Write these words For they are faithful and true." And it is done. It is done. It is done. It is done. He is the Alpha and Omega, The Beginning and the End, Son of God, King of kings, Lord of lords, He is everything, Messiah, Jehovah, Prince of Peace is He, Son of Man, Seed of Abraham, Second person in the Trinity.|KBC-6
english|As The Deer||As the deer pants for the water So my soul longs after You You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship You You alone are my strength, my shield To You alone may my spirit yield You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship You You're my Friend, and You are my brother Even though you are a king I love You more than any other, So much more than anything I love You more than gold or silver Only You can satisfy You alone are the real joy-giver And the apple of my eye|KBC-7
english|Awesome God||When He rolls up His sleeves He ain't just puttin' on the ritz Our God is an awesome God There is thunder in His footsteps And lightning in His fists Our God is an awesome God The Lord wasn't joking When He kicked them out of Eden It wasn't for no reason That He shed his blood His return is very close So you better be believing that Our God is an awesome God Our God is an awesome God He reigns from heaven above With wisdom, power, and love Our God is an awesome God When the sky was starless In the void of the night Our God is an awesome God He spoke into the darkness And created the light Our God is an awesome God Judgment and wrath He poured out on Sodom Mercy and grace He gave us at the cross I hope that we have not Too quickly forgotten that Our God is an awesome God|KBC-8
english|Coloring Song||Red is the color of the blood that flowed Down the face of someone who loved us so. He's the perfect man. He's the Lord's own Son. He's the Lamb of God, He's the only one That can give us life That can make us grow That can make the love between us flow. Blue is the color of a heart so cold That will not bend when the story's told Of the love of God for a sinful race, Of the blood that flowed down Jesus' face, That can give us life That can make us grow That can keep our hearts from growing cold. Gold is the color of the morning sun That shines so freely on everyone. It's the sun above that keeps us warm, It's the Son of love that calms the storm, That can give us life That can make us grow That can turn our mornings into gold. Brown is the color of the autumn leaves When the winter comes to the barren trees, There is birth, there is death, there is a plan, There's just one God, and there's just one Man That can give us life That can make us grow That can make our sins as white as snow That can give us life That can make us grow That can turn our mornings into gold That can give us life That can make us grow That can keep our hearts from growing cold That can give us life That can make us grow That can make the love between us flow.|KBC-9
english|Colossians 3:12-15, 17||And so, as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved; Put on a heart of compassion, Kindness, humility and patience. And whatever you do in word or deed, Do all in the name of the Lord, Whatever you do in word or deed, Do all in the name of the Lord, Giving thanks through Him to God, Giving thanks through Him to God. Bear with one another, And forgive each other too, Whoever has a complaint; Just as the Lord forgave, So also should you. And beyond all these holy things, Put on love in perfect unity. And let the peace of Christ Rule in your hearts, To which indeed you're called In one body.|KBC-10
english|Come To The Water||You said You'd come To share all my sorrows. You said You'd be there For all my tomorrows. I came so close to sending You away, But just like You promised, You came there to stay. I just had to pray. And Jesus said, "Come to the water, Stand by My side. I know you are thirsty, You won't be denied. I felt every teardrop When in darkness you cried, And I strove to remind you That for your sins I died." Your goodness so great I can't understand, But dear Lord I know That all this was planned. I know You're here now, And always will be. Your love loosed my chains And in You I'm free, But Jesus why me? Jesus, I give You My heart and my soul I know now without God I'd never be whole. Savior You opened all the right doors. I thank You and praise You From Earth's humble shores. Take me, I'm Yours.|KBC-11
english|Deuteronomy 5:29 & II Chronicles 16:9||Oh that they had such a heart in them, That they would fear Me, And keep all My commandments always, That it may be well With them and their sons forever! For the eyes of the Lord Move to and fro Throughout the earth So that He may strongly Support the one Whose heart is completely His.|KBC-12
english|Ephesians 1:18-23||I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of His calling, the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us these are in accordance with the working of the strength of His might Which He brought about in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead, and seated Him at His right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And He put all things in subjection under His feet, and gave Him as head over all things to the church, which is His body, the fullness of Him Who fills all in all. Which is His body, the fullness of Him Who fills all in all.|KBC-13
english|Ephesians 1:7||In Him we have redemption Through His blood, The forgiveness of our trespasses Through His blood, According to the riches of His grace, Which He lavished upon us, Which He lavished upon us.|KBC-14
english|Ephesians 2:4, 8-9||For by grace you have been saved through faith, And this is not your own doing. It is the gift, it is the gift, It is the gift of God. For God who is rich in mercy, Out of the great love With which He loved us, Even though we were dead In our trespasses, Made us alive, made us alive, Made us alive with Christ. For by grace you have been saved through faith, And this is not your own doing. It is the gift, it is the gift, It is the gift of God.|KBC-15
english|I Believe in Jesus||I believe in Jesus! I believe He is the Son of God! I believe He died and rose again! I believe He paid for us all! And I believe that He's here now Standing in our midst! Here with the power to heal now And the grace to forgive! I believe in You Lord! I believe You are the Son of God! I believe You died and rose again! I believe You paid for us all! And I believe that You're here now Standing in our midst! Here with the power to heal now And the grace to forgive!|KBC-16
english|Ephesians 5:8, 14-16||Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead And Christ will shine on you Awake, sleeper, and arise from the dead And Christ will shine on you For you were formerly darkness But now you are light in the Lord Walk as children of light For this reason it says, Therefore, be careful how you walk, Not as unwise men, but as wise, Making the most of your time, Because the days are evil. For this reason it says,|KBC-17
english|Exodus 15:11||Who is like Thee, O Lord, Among the gods? Who is like Thee, O Lord, Majestic in holiness, Awesome in praises, Working wonders, Who is like Thee, O Lord?|KBC-18
english|Exodus 15:1-2||I will sing unto the Lord For He has triumphed gloriously; The horse and rider Are thrown into the sea The Lord, my God, my strength, my song Has now become my victory. The Lord's my God and I will praise Him; My Father's God and I will exalt Him.|KBC-19
english|Fill Up My Cup||Fill up my cup Fill up my cup Fill up my cup & let it overflow Let it overflow with love Amazing grace That saved a wretch I once was lost but now am found, Was blind, but now I see When we've been there ten thousand years) Bright shining as We've no less days to sing God's praise Than when we first begun|KBC-20
english|Forever Grateful||You did not wait for me To draw near to You, But you clothed Yourself With frail humanity You did not wait for me To cry out to You, But You let me hear Your voice calling me And I'm forever grateful to You I'm forever grateful for the cross I'm forever grateful to You That You came to seek and save the lost. You saw me as a pearl Of the greatest price And You gave up all You had To purchase me. I was the lost lamb That had gone astray But You left the ninety-nine to rescue me.|KBC-21
english|Isaiah 55:12||You shall go out with joy And be led forth with peace The mountains and the hills Will break forth before you There'll be shouts of joy And all the trees of the field Will clap, will clap their hands And all the trees of the field Will clap their hands The trees of the field Will clap their hands The trees of the field Will clap their hands As you go out for joy|KBC-22
english|John 14:23||If a man loves Me, he will keep My word; If a man loves Me, he will keep My word; And My Father will love him, And We will come to him, And make Our abode with him.|KBC-23
english|He's Everything to Me||In the stars His handiwork I see On the wind He speaks with majesty Though He ruleth over land and sea What is that to me? I will celebrate Nativity For it has a place in history Sure He came to set His people free What is that to me? Til by faith I met Him face to face And I felt the wonder of His grace Then I knew that He was more than just A God who didn't care Who lived a way up there and... Now He walks beside me day by day Ever watching o'er me lest I stray Helping me to find that narrow way He's everything to me!|KBC-24
english|I Am The Resurrection||I am the resurrection and the life He who believes in Me will never die I am the resurrection and the life He who believes in Me will live a new life I have come to give you truth I have come to give you life If you believe then you shall live" In My Word all men shall come to know It's the Spirit that makes our love grow If you believe then you shall live" Keep in mind the things that I have said Remember Me in the breaking of the bread If you believe then you shall live"|KBC-25
english|Hebrews 4:14-16||Since then we have a great High Priest, A Priest who has passed through The heavens, Jesus the Son of God, Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest Who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, But One who has been tempted In all things as we, In all things yet without sin. Let us therefore draw near with confidence To the throne of grace, That we may receive mercy And may find grace To help in time of need.|KBC-26
english|Hosea 6:3||So let us know, Let us press on to know the Lord. His going forth is as certain as the dawn; And He will come to us like the rain, Like the spring rain watering the earth So let us press on to know the Lord. Like the spring rain watering the earth So let us press on to know the Lord.|KBC-27
english|You Are My Hiding Place||You are my hiding place You always fill my heart with Songs of deliverance. Whenever I am afraid I will trust in You, I will trust in You. Let the weak say "I am strong In the strength of the Lord." I will trust in You|KBC-28
english|Be Thou My Vision||Be Thou my vision, O Lord of my heart Nought be all else to me, Save that Thou art Thou my best thought, By day or by night Waking or sleeping, Thy presence my light. Be Thou my wisdom, And Thou my true Word I ever with Thee And Thou with me, Lord, Thou my great Father, I Thy true son Thou in me dwelling, And I with Thee one. Riches I heed not Nor man's empty praise Thou mine inheritance, Now and always, Thou and Thou only, First in my heart High King of Heaven, My treasure Thou art. High King of Heaven, My victory won, May I reach Heaven's joys, O bright Heaven's Sun! Heart of my own heart, Whatever befall, Still be my vision, O Ruler of all.|KBC-29
english|2 Peter 1:8, 9||And though you have not seen Him, You love Him, And though you do not see Him now, But believe in Him, You greatly rejoice With joy inexpressible You greatly rejoice With joy full of glory. Obtaining as the outcome of your faith The salvation of your souls|KBC-30
english|Isaiah 41:10||Do not fear for I am with you Be not anxious for I am your God I will strengthen you Surely I will help you Surely I will hold you With My righteous right hand I will strengthen you Surely I will help you Surely I will hold you With My righteous right hand Do not fear for I am with you.|KBC-31
english|Isaiah 52:7, 10||How lovely on the mountains Are the feet of him Who brings good news, good news. Announcing peace, Proclaiming news of happiness Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Ends of the earth See the salvation of our God. Jesus is Lord, He is Lord. Before the nations He has bared His mighty arm. Our God reigns, our God reigns.|KBC-32
english|Isaiah 53||All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, But the Lord has laid on Him The iniquity of us all. He bore our sorrows and our shame, He took away our sin. And He has healed us by His stripes, And made us whole again.|KBC-33
english|Shout To The Lord||My Jesus, my Savior, Lord there is none like You All of my days I want to praise The wonders of Your mighty love My comfort, my shelter, Tower of refuge and strength Let every breath, all that I am Never cease to worship You Shout to the Lord all the earth let us sing Power and majesty praise to the King Mountains bow down and the seas will roar At the sound of Your name I sing for joy at the work of Your hand Forever I'll love You, forever I'll stand Nothing compares to The promise I have in You|KBC-34
english|Wake Up||Close the door, turn off the light Close the door, turn off the light I'm going to sleep now 'cause I'm real tired I will wake up and play with you tomorrow I'm sleeping, I don't want to wake up Open the door, turn on the light Open the door, turn on the light Jesus said wake up, I am the one door I am the true light, come follow Me Jesus, He is the door Jesus, He is the light Open the door, turn on the light|KBC-35
english|Make A Joyful Noise To The Lord||Make a joyful noise unto the Lord For He is worthy to be praised Sing with your spirit Clap with your hands Our God is greatly to be praised Worthy, worthy, He is worthy to be praised Hallelujah! Our God is greatly to be praised|KBC-36
english|Who Killed Jesus?||Was it Roman soldiers, With their tools of war Driving nails through Hands that did no wrong? Mocking and abusing, Crowning Him with thorns All the evidence is very strong. Who killed Jesus many years ago? Who is guilty of a crime so low? Why did He have to die? What is the reason why? Who killed Jesus? I would like to know Was it Pontius Pilate? He was governor, Trying to decide The case that day. Finding that the Savior Had no fault His own Was he guilty when he turned away? Was it His disciple? Judas was his name- Should this traitor friend Deserve the blame? He sold out the Savior Betrayed Him with a kiss If we blame him would we be amiss? Was it Hebrew children, Proud of who they were? Shouting, Crucify Him!" at their King? Trading their Messiah For a common thief Turning down the kingdom He could bring? When I think of Jesus And the way He died, How upon Him All my sin was laid, All the other people Fade away from view It's for me the sacrifice was made I no longer wonder any more I have found what I've been searching for! My sin demanded Hell On Him the judgment fell I am guilty. Now it's plain to see that it was really me!|KBC-37
english|Your Everlasting Love||Your everlasting love is higher, Higher, higher than the sky Your everlasting love is higher, Higher, higher than the sky Higher than the sky. Oh the wonder of Your everlasting love is higher than the sky Your everlasting love is deeper, Deeper, deeper than the sea Your everlasting love is deeper, Deeper, deeper than the sea Deeper than the sea. Oh the wonder of Your everlasting love is deeper than the sea Higher than the heavens above Is the glory of Your wonderful love I'm lost in the mystery of Your everlasting love, Your everlasting love Your everlasting love is reaching, Reaching, reaching out to me Your everlasting love is reaching, Reaching, reaching out to me Reaching out to me. Oh the wonder of Your everlasting love is reaching out to me -|KBC-38
english|Praise Song||We praise You oh Lord For the love that You give And the time that You spent On this world for our sins We lift up Your name in honor and praise In Jesus we place All our love and our faith And we know that You are the Savior And we know that You are the Son And we know that You are the Savior Of everyone The time is now near When You will appear When we see Your face And Your voice we will hear And then we will sing to Jesus the King The Maker, Creator of everything|KBC-39
english|In The Secret (I Want to Know You)||In the secret, in the quiet place In the stillness You are there In the secret, In the quiet hour I wait Only for You Cause I want to know You more I want to know You, I want to hear Your voice I want to know You more I want to touch You, I want to see Your face I want to know You more I am reaching for the highest goal That I might receive the prize Pressing onward, Pushing every hinderance aside Out of my way Cause I want to know You more|KBC-40
english|Tell It Again||Into the tent where a gypsy boy lay Dying alone at the close of the day News of salvation we carried, said he Nobody ever has told it to me!" Tell it again! Tell it again! Salvation's story repeat o'er and o'er Till none can say of the children of men Nobody ever has told me before!" Did He so love me, a poor little boy? Send unto me the good tidings of joy? Need not I perish? My hand will He hold? Nobody ever the story has told!" Bending we caught the last words of his breath Just as he entered the valley of death God sent His Son!" "Whosoever," said he Then I am sure that He sent Him for me!" Smiling, he said, as his last sigh he spent I am so glad that for me He was sent!" Whispered, while low sank the sun in the west Lord, I believe, tell it now to the rest!"|KBC-41
english|KBC Song||The Kansas Bible Camp are we And gladly now we raise our song To Him who made us, loved us, bought us All honor and all praise belong Oh may we love Thy precious Word And honor Christ Thy own dear Son As Savior trust Him, as Lord obey Him, And seek to live for Him alone|KBC-42
english|Step By Step||O God, You are my God, And I will ever praise You! O God, You are my God, And I will ever praise You! I will seek You in the morning, And I will learn to walk in Your ways; And step by step You'll lead me, And I will follow You all of my days. And I will follow You all of my days. And I will follow You all of my days. And step by step You'll lead me, And I will follow You all of my days.|KBC-43
english|Star Spangled Banner||Oh, say, can you see, By the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, Through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, Were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, The bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night, That our flag was still there. Oh, say, does that star-spangled Banner yet wave O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave? Oh, thus be it e'er, When freemen shall stand Between their loved homes, And the war's desolation; Blest with vict'ry and peace, May the heav'n rescued land Praise the Pow'r that hath made. And preserved us a nation! Then conquer we must, When our cause it is just; And this be our motto: In God is our trust!" And the star-spangled banner In triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave. On the shore, dimly seen Thro' the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host In dread silence reposes, What is that which the breeze, O'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, Half conceals, half discloses? Now it catches the gleam Of the morning's first beam, In full glory reflected, Now shines on the stream: Tis the star-spangled banner; Oh, long may it wave O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave. And where is that band, Who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war And the battle's confusion, A home and a country Should leave us no more? Their blood has washed out Their foul footsteps' pollution; No refuge could save The hireling and slave From the terror of flight Or the gloom of the grave. And the star-spangled banner In triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave.|KBC-44
english|Creed||I believe in God the Father, Almighty Maker of heaven and Maker of earth. And in Jesus Christ His only begotten Son, our Lord He was conceived by the Holy Spirit, Born of the Virgin Mary, Suffered under Pontius Pilate, He was crucified and dead and buried. I believe what I believe It's what makes me what I am. I did not make it, No it is making me; It is the very truth of God And not the invention of any man. I believe that He who suffered was crucified Buried, and dead. He descended into hell And on the third day rose again. He ascended into heaven Where He sits at God's mighty right hand. I believe that He's returning To judge the quick And the dead of the sons of men. I believe in God the Father, Almighty Maker of heaven and Maker of earth. And in Jesus Christ His only begotten Son, our Lord I believe in the Holy Spirit, One Holy Church, the communion of Saints, The forgiveness of sin. I believe in the resurrection, I believe in life that never ends.|KBC-45
english|John 5:24||He who hears My word And believes on Him Who sent Me Has eternal life And shall not come into judgment But has passed out of death into life|KBC-46
english|Hebrews 4:12||For the word of God is living and active And sharper than any two-edged sword Piercing as far as the division Of soul and spirit Of both joints and marrow And able to judge the thoughts And intentions of the heart|KBC-47
english|Sustenance||You O Lord are my sustenance The One I depend on for all my needs You O Lord are my sustenance You show me not to rely on my deeds After You delivered Israel's helpless race And gave them commandments They turned from Your face Yet You did not forsake them Though they did not obey You daily gave them manna And You showed them the way Though I had sinned And had wandered astray You sought to save me And show me Your way You know I still sin But You have forgiven me And slowly I'm becoming Who You want me to be I know that my daily needs Will be met by Thee I only need to put my trust In You and not in me When I am humble And follow Your lead I become more like the One Who is sanctifying me|KBC-48
english|Love||Love the Lord your God with all your heart and all your soul and all your mind and love all of mankind as you would love yourself And love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul and mind and love all of mankind We've got Christian lives to live. We've got Jesus' love to give. We've got nothing to hide because in Him we abide|KBC-49
english|The One Who is I AM||You have always been And You will always be When You made the earth You put fish into the sea You made dry land appear Created man and wife Put them in a garden And gave them the perfect life You are the One Who formed the mountains You are the One Who created the prairie You are the pure and spotless Lamb You are the One Who is I AM Adam sinned against You And began to slowly die He no longer lived in fellowship With the One Who reigns on high Because Your holiness decrees That sin cannot abide in Your sight So Adam and his race Were condemned to eternal night But You're still the One Who formed the mountains You're still the One Who created the prairie You are the pure and spotless Lamb You are the One Who is I AM You did not give up on men You made a way to cover sin But the blood of sheep could not Bring eternal peace within So You left Your home above To die upon Golgotha's tree And You satisfied Your Father's wrath So that we might be let into glory|KBC-50
english|1 John 1:9, 10||If we confess our sins He is faithful and righteous To forgive us our sins And to cleanse us From all unrighteousness If we say that we have not sinned We make Him a liar And His word is not in us If we say that we have not sinned We make Him a liar And His word is not in us|KBC-51
english|The Books of the Bible||GENESIS EXODUS LEVITICUS NUMBERS DEUTERONOMY JOSHUA JUDGES RUTH 1 AND 2 SAMUEL 1 AND 2 KINGS 1 AND 2 CHRONICLES EZRA NEHEMIAH ESTHER JOB and then the book of PSALMS PROVERBS ECCLESIASTES SONG OF SOLOMON ISAIAH JEREMIAH LAMENTATIONS EZEKIEL DANIEL HOSEA JOEL AMOS OBADIAH JONAH MICAH NAHUM HABAKKUK ZEPHANIAH HAGGAI ZECHARIAH then comes MALACHI MATTHEW MARK LUKE JOHN ACTS ROMANS CORINTHIANS GALATIANS EPHESIANS PHILIPPIANS COLOSSIANS THESSALONIANS TIMOTHY TITUS and PHILEMON HEBREWS JAMES PETER JOHN JUDE REVELATION Index, Concordance, and Maps|KBC-52
english|Psalm 5:3, 7:17||In the morning, O Lord, Wilt Thou hear my voice; In the morning, O Lord. In the morning I will order my prayer To Thee and eagerly watch. I will give thanks to the Lord According to His righteousness And will sing praises to the name Of the Lord, the Lord Most High.|KBC-53
english|John 14:5-7||Thomas asked the Lord We don't know where You're going Thomas asked the Lord How can we know the way? Jesus answered I am the Way and the Truth and the Life No one comes to the Father But through Me I am the Way and the Truth and the Life No one comes to the Father But through Me If you really knew Me You would know My Father as well If you really knew Me You would know My Father as well Jesus answered I am the Way and the Truth and the Life No one comes to the Father But through Me I am the Way and the Truth and the Life No one comes to the Father ... But through Me|KBC-54
english|Zephaniah 3:17||The Lord your God is in your midst A Warrior who saves He will exult over you with joy He will renew you in His love He will rejoice over you With shouts of joy, with shouts of joy With shouts of joy, with shouts of joy With shouts of joy|KBC-55
english|Proverbs 3:5-8||Trust in the Lord with all your heart Don't lean on your own understanding In all your ways acknowledge Him And He will make your paths straight Do not be wise in your own eyes Fear the Lord and turn from evil It will be healing to your body And refreshment to your bones|KBC-56
english|Psalm 3:3-4||My glory and the lifter of my head My glory and the lifter of my head For Thou O Lord art a shield to me My glory and the lifter of my head I cried unto the Lord with my voice I cried unto the Lord with my voice I cried unto the Lord with my voice And He answered me from His holy hill|KBC-57
english|All Hail the Power of Jesus' Name||All hail the power of Jesus' name Let angels prostrate fall Let angels prostrate fall Bring forth the royal diadem And crown. . . . . . Him, crown Him Crown Him, crown Him and crown Him Lord of all Ye chosen seed of Israel's race Ye ransomed from the fall Ye ransomed from the fall Hail Him who saves you by His grace And crown. . . . . . Him, crown Him Crown Him, crown Him and crown Him Lord of all Let every kindred, every tribe On this terrestrial ball On this terrestrial ball To Him all majesty ascribe And crown. . . . . . Him, crown Him Crown Him, crown Him and crown Him Lord of all O that with yonder sacred throng We at His feet may fall We at His feet may fall We'll join the everlasting song And crown. . . . . . Him, crown Him Crown Him, crown Him and crown Him Lord of all|KBC-58
english|O For A Thousand Tongues||O for a thousand tongues to sing My great Redeemer's praise The glories of my God and King The triumphs of His grace My gracious Master and my God Assist me to proclaim To spread through all the earth abroad The honors of Thy name Jesus the name that charms our fears That bids our sorrows cease Tis music in the sinner's ears Tis life and health and peace He breaks the power of cancelled sin He sets the prisoner free His blood can make the foulest clean His blood availed for me Hear Him ye deaf His praise ye dumb Your loosened tongues employ Ye blind behold your Savior come And leap ye lame for joy|KBC-59
english|Break Thou the Bread of Life||Break Thou the bread of life Dear Lord to me As Thou didst break the loaves Beside the sea Beyond the sacred page I seek Thee Lord My spirit pants for Thee O Living Word Bless Thou the truth dear Lord To me to me As Thou didst bless the bread By Galilee Then shall the bondage cease All fetters fall And I shall find my peace My all in all Thou art the Bread of Life O Lord to me Thy holy word the truth That saveth me Give me to eat and live With Thee above Teach me to love Thy truth For Thou art love O send Thy Spirit Lord Now unto me That He may touch my eyes And make me see Show me the truth concealed Within Thy word And in Thy book revealed I see the Lord|KBC-60
english|WE'RE MARCHING TO ZION||Come, we that love the Lord, and let our joys be known, join in a song with sweet accord, join in a song with sweet accord, and thus surround the throne, and thus surround the throne. We're marching to Zion, beautiful, beautiful Zion; we're marching upward to Zion, the beautiful city of God. Let those refuse to sing who never knew our God; but children of the heav'nly King, but children of the heav'nly King, may speak their joys abroad, may speak their joys abroad. The hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach the heav'nly fields, before we reach the heav'nly fields, or walk the golden streets, or walk the golden streets. Then let our songs abound, and ev'ry tear be dry; we're marching thro' Immanuel's ground, we're marching thro' Immanuel's ground, to fairer worlds on high, to fairer worlds on high.|KBC-61
english|Crown Him with Many Crowns||Crown Him with many crowns The Lamb upon His throne Hark how the heav'nly anthem drowns All music but its own Awake my soul and sing Of Him who died for thee And hail Him as thy matchless King Through all eternity Crown Him the Lord of love Behold His hands and side Rich wounds yet visible above In beauty glorified No angel in the sky Can fully bear that sight But downward bends his wandering eye At mysteries so bright Crown Him the Lord of life Who triumphed o'er the grave Who rose victorious to the strife For those He came to save His glories now we sing Who died and rose on high Who died eternal life to bring And lives that death may die Crown Him the Lord of Heav'n One with the Father known One with the Spirit through Him giv'n From yonder glorious throne To Thee be endless praise For Thou for us hast died Be Thou O Lord through endless days Adored and magnified Crown Him with many crowns The Lamb upon His throne Hark how the heavenly anthem drowns All music but its own Awake my soul and sing Of Him who died for thee And hail Him as thy matchless King Through all eternity|KBC-62
english|Jesus Shall Reign||Jesus shall reign where're the sun Doth its successive courses run His kingdom spread from shore to shore Till moon shall wax and wane no more From north to south the princes meet To pay their homage at His feet While western empires own their Lord And savage tribes attend His word To Him shall endless prayer be made And endless praises crown His head His name like sweet perfume shall rise With every morning sacrifice People and realms of every tongue Dwell on His love with sweetest song And infant voices shall proclaim Their early blessings to His name|KBC-63
english|The Solid Rock||My hope is built on nothing less Than Jesus' blood and righteousness I dare not trust the sweetest frame But wholly lean on Jesus' name On Christ the Solid Rock I stand All other ground is sinking sand All other ground is sinking sand When darkness veils His lovely face I rest on His unchanging grace In every high and stormy gale My anchor holds within the veil On Christ the Solid Rock I stand All other ground is sinking sand All other ground is sinking sand His oath His covenant His blood Support me in the whelming flood When all around my soul gives way He then is all my hope and stay On Christ the Solid Rock I stand All other ground is sinking sand All other ground is sinking sand When He shall come with trumpet sound Oh may I then in Him be found Dressed in His righteousness alone Faultless to stand before the throne On Christ the Solid Rock I stand All other ground is sinking sand All other ground is sinking sand|KBC-64
english|SWBC Song||The Southwest Bible Camp are we And gladly now we raise our song To Him who made us, loved us, bought us All honor and all praise belong Oh may we love Thy precious Word And honor Christ Thy own dear Son As Savior trust Him, as Lord obey Him, And seek to live for Him alone|KBC-65
english|The Bread of Life||I am the bread of life He who comes to Me shall not hunger He who believes in Me shall not thirst No one comes to Me Unless the Father draws him And I will raise him up And I will raise him up And I will raise him up On the last day The bread that I shall give Is My flesh for the life of the world He who eats this bread He shall live forever He shall live forever And I will raise him up And I will raise him up And I will raise him up On the last day I am the resurrection I am the life He who believes in Me Even if he dies He shall live forever And I will raise him up And I will raise him up And I will raise him up On the last day Yes Lord I believe That You are the Christ The Son of God Who has come Into the world And You will raise me up And You will raise me up And You will raise me up On the last day And I will raise You up And I will raise You up And I will raise You up On the last day|KBC-66
english|A Mighty Fortress Is Our God||A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing; Our helper He, amid the flood Of mortal ills prevailing. For still our ancient foe Doth seek to work us woe; His craft and pow'r are great, And armed with cruel hate, On earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide, Our striving would be losing; Were not the right Man on our side, The Man of God's own choosing. Dost ask Who that may be? Christ Jesus, it is He; Lord Sabaoth is His name, From age to age the same, And He must win the battle. And tho' this world, with devils filled, Should threaten to undo us; We will not fear, for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us. The prince of darkness grim - We tremble not for him; His rage we can endure, For lo! his doom is sure, One little word shall fell him. That word above all earthly pow'rs - No thanks to them - abideth: The Spirit and the gifts are ours Thro' Him Who with us sideth. Let goods and kindred go, This mortal life also; The body they may kill: God's truth abideth still, His kingdom is forever.|KBC-67
english|The Seven Days of Creation||On the first day of creation God said let there be Light that all may see On the second day of creation God said let there be Heaven up above, earth below and Light that all may see On the third day of creation God said let there be Flowers and trees Heaven up above, earth below and Light that all may see On the fourth day of creation God said let there be Sun, moon and stars! Flowers and trees Heaven up above, earth below and Light that all may see On the fifth day of creation God said let there be Many birds a flying, many fish a swimming Sun, moon and stars! Flowers and trees Heaven up above, earth below and Light that all may see On the sixth day of creation God said let there be People I delight in Many birds a flying, many fish a swimming Sun, moon and stars! Flowers and trees Heaven up above, earth below and Light that all may see On the seventh day of creation God said let there be A day for us to rest in People I delight in Many birds a flying, many fish a swimming Sun, moon and stars! Flowers and trees Heaven up above earth below and Light that all may see|KBC-68
english|No Man Careth For My Soul||Far away on distant shores Many souls are in despair For their hearts are sad And weighted down with sin And their tear-stained faces plead For relief from all their care Persecution from without and fear within No man careth for my soul" Thus cry the millions! No man careth for my soul" Oh hear their plea! Won't you give your life today To spread the gospel So that Christ can save their souls And set them free? Poor lost souls with blinded eyes Grope about in sin's dark night Kneeling down before the gods Of wood and stone Can we see them dying there Still denied the gospel light Let them go into eternity alone? No man careth for my soul" Thus cry the millions! No man careth for my soul" Oh hear their plea! Won't you give your life today To spread the gospel So that Christ can save their souls And set them free?|KBC-69
english|He Giveth More Grace||He giveth more grace When the burdens grow greater He sendeth more strength When the labors increase To added affliction He addeth His mercy To multiplied trials His multiplied peace His love has no limit His grace has no measure His power has no boundary Known unto men For out of His infinite riches in Jesus He giveth, and giveth, and giveth again When we have exhausted Our store of endurance When our strength has failed Ere the day is half done When we reach the end Of our hoarded resources Our Father's full giving Is only begun|KBC-70
english|Romans 12:9-14||Let love be without hypocrisy Abhor what is evil Clinging to what is good And be devoted to one another In brotherly love Give preference to one another in honor Not lagging behind in diligence Fervent in spirit, serving, serving the Lord Rejoicing in hope Persevering in tribulation Devoted to prayer Contributing to the needs Of the saints Practicing hospitality Bless those who persecute you Bless and curse not Let love be without hypocrisy Abhor what is evil Clinging to what is good And be devoted to one another In brotherly love Give preference to one another in honor Not lagging behind in diligence Fervent in spirit, serving, serving the Lord|KBC-71
english|Romans 12:1 and 2||I urge you therefore bretheren By the mercies of God to present your bodies A living and holy sacrifice Acceptable to God Which is your spiritual service of worship And do not be conformed to this world But be ye transformed By the renewing of your M-iiiiiiiiiiiii-nd That you may prove What the will of God is That which is good And acceptable and perfect I urge you therefore bretheren By the mercies of God to present your bodies A living and holy sacrifice Acceptable to God Which is your spiritual service of worship And do not be conformed to this world But be ye transformed By the renewing of your M-iiiiiiiiiiiii-nd|KBC-72
english|Heart of Worship||When the music fades And all is swept away And I simply come Longing just to bring Something that's of worth That will bless Your heart I'll bring You more than a song For a song in itself Is not what You have required You search much deeper within Through the way things appear You're looking into my heart I'm coming back to the heart of worship And it's all about You It's all about You, Jesus I'm sorry Lord for the Thing I've made it When it's all about You It's all about You, Jesus King of endless worth No one could express How much You deserve Though I'm weak and poor All I have is Yours Every single breath I'll bring You more than a song For a song in itself Is not what You have required You search much deeper within Through the way things appear You're looking into my heart I'm coming back to the heart of worship And it's all about You It's all about You, Jesus I'm sorry Lord for the Thing I've made it When it's all about You It's all about You, Jesus|KBC-73
english|Almighty||Almighty, most holy God Faithful through the ages Almighty, most holy Lord Glorious almighty God! The beasts of the field, the birds of the air Are silent to call out Your name The earth has no voice, and I have no choice But to magnify God unashamed Let the rocks be kept silent For one more day Let the whole world sing out Let the people say Almighty, most holy God Faithful through the ages Almighty, most holy Lord Glorious almighty God! Time marches on, with innocence gone And a darkness has covered the earth But His spirit still dwells, He speaks it is well And the hopeless are offered new birth He will break the leash of death, It will have no sting Let the prisoner go free Join to dance and sing Almighty, most holy God Faithful through the ages Almighty, most holy Lord Glorious almighty God!|KBC-74
english|Channels Only||How I praise Thee precious Savior That Thy love laid hold of me Thou hast saved and cleansed And filled me That I might Thy channel be Channels only blessed Master But with all Thy wondrous power Flowing through us Thou canst use us Every day and every hour Emptied that Thou shouldest fill me A clean vessel in Thy hand With no power but as Thou givest Graciously with each command Witnessing Thy power to save me Setting free from self and sin Thou who boughtest to possess me In Thy fullness Lord come in|KBC-75
english|Holiness||Holiness, holiness is what I long for Holiness is what I need Holiness, holiness is what You want for me Take my heart and form it Take my mind transform it Take my will conform it To Yours, to Yours oh Lord Brokeness, brokeness is what I long for Brokeness is what I need Brokeness, brokeness is what you want for me Righteousness, righteousness is what I long for Righteousness is what I need Righteousness, righteousness is what You want for me Faithfulness, faithfulness is what I long for Faithfulness is what I need Faithfulness, faithfulness is what You want for me|KBC-76
english|Lord I Want To Know You More||Lord I want to know You more Deep within my heart I want to know You Lord I want to show You that I would give my final breath To know You in Your death and resurrection Lord I want to know You more Lord I want to know You more|KBC-77
english|Make Me A Servant||Make me a servant, humble and meek, Lord, let me lift up those who are weak. And may the prayer of my heart always be: Make me a servant, make me a servant, Make me a servant today.|KBC-78
english|May The Mind Of Christ My Savior||May the mind of Christ my Savior Live in me from day to day By His love and pow'r controlling All I do and say May the word of God dwell richly In my heart from hour to hour So that all may see I triumph Only through his pow'r May the peace of God my Father Rule my life in everything That I may be calm to comfort Sick and sorrowing May the love of Jesus fill me As the waters fill the sea Him exalting, self abasing This is victory May I run the race before me Strong and brave to face the foe Looking only unto Jesus As I onward go May His beauty rest upon me As I seek the lost to win And may they forget the channel Seeing only Him|KBC-79
english|Mighty Is Our God||Mighty is our God Mighty is our King Mighty is our Lord Ruler of everything Glory to our God Glory to our King Glory to our Lord Ruler of everything His name is higher Higher than any other name His power is greater For He has created everything Mighty is our God Mighty is our King Mighty is our Lord Ruler of everything Glory to our God Glory to our King Glory to our Lord Ruler of everything|KBC-80
english|You Are Mighty||You are mighty, You are holy You are awesome in Your power You have risen, You have conquered You have beaten the power of death Alleluia, we will rejoice Alleluia, we will rejoice|KBC-81
english|Sometimes by Step||Sometimes the night was beautiful Sometimes the sky was so far away Sometimes it seemed to stoop so close You could touch it but your heart would break Sometimes the morning came too soon Sometimes the day could be so hot There was so much work left to do But so much you'd already done Oh God, You are my God And I will ever praise You Oh God, You are my God And I will ever praise You I will seek You in the morning And I will learn to walk in Your ways And step by step You'll lead me And I will follow You all of my days. Sometimes I think of Abraham How one star he saw had been lit for me He was a stranger in this land And I am that, no less than he. And on this road to righteousness Sometimes the climb can be so steep I may falter in my steps But never beyond Your reach. Oh God, You are my God And I will ever praise You Oh God, You are my God And I will ever praise You I will seek You in the morning And I will learn to walk in Your ways And step by step You'll lead me And I will follow you all of my days. And I will follow You all of my days And I will follow You all of my days And step by step You'll lead me And I will follow You all of my days|KBC-82
english|The Creator Of The Stars||Tiny dots of light In an endless darkness hung They shine forth in the night And they speak without a tongue Jesus chose to put them there When the world began And I know that my life too Is included in His plan So I do not have to worry Though trials leave their scars My loving Lord is Jesus Christ The Creator of the stars Bigger than the sky Is my Savior's love for me He came to earth to die After living perfectly Now I live to serve Him What else could I do And when I go through struggles I remember He has faced them too So I do not have to worry Though trials leave their scars My living Lord is Jesus Christ The Creator of the stars|KBC-83
english|Micah 4:5||Though all the peoples walk, Each in the name of his god, As for us, we will walk In the name of the Lord our God forever|KBC-84
english|Above All||Above all powers Above all kings Above all nature And all created things Above all wisdom And all the ways of man You were here Before the world began Above all kingdoms Above all thrones Above all wonders The world has ever known Above all wealth And treasures of the earth There's no way to measure What You're worth Crucified, laid behind the stone You lived to die rejected and alone Like a rose trampled on the ground You took the fall and thought of me Above all Above all powers Above all kings Above all nature And all created things Above all wisdom And all the ways of man You were here Before the world began Above all kingdoms Above all thrones Above all wonders The world has ever known Above all wealth And treasures of the earth There's no way to measure What You're worth Crucified, laid behind the stone You lived to die rejected and alone Like a rose trampled on the ground You took the fall and thought of me Above all|KBC-85
english|Come, Now Is the Time to Worship||Come, now is the time to worship Come, now is the time to give your heart Come, just as you are to worship Come, just as you are before your God Come One day every tongue Will confess You are God One day every knee will bow Still the greatest treasure Remains for those Who gladly choose You now Come, now is the time to worship Come, now is the time to give your heart Come, just as you are to worship Come, just as you are before your God Come|KBC-86
english|Forever My Love||The nails in Your hands, The nail in Your feet They tell me how much You love me The thorns on Your brow They tell me how You bore so much pain to love me And when the heavens pass away, All Your scars will still remain, And forever they will say Just how much You love me So I want to say Forever my love, Forever my heart, Forever my life is Yours Forever my love, Forever my heart, Forever my life is Yours The nails in Your hands, The nail in Your feet They tell me how much You love me The thorns on Your brow They tell me how You bore so much pain to love me And when the heavens pass away, All Your scars will still remain, And forever they will say Just how much You love me So I want to say Forever my love, Forever my heart, Forever my life is Yours Forever my love, Forever my heart, Forever my life is Yours It's Yours|KBC-87
english|Lord Most High||From the ends of the earth From the depths of the sea From the heights of the heavens Your name be praised From the hearts of the weak From the shouts of the strong From the lips of all people This song we raise, Lord Throughout the endless ages You will be crowned with praises, Lord Most High Exalted in every nation Sovereign of all creation Lord Most High, be magnified From the ends of the earth From the depths of the sea From the heights of the heavens Your name be praised From the hearts of the weak From the shouts of the strong From the lips of all people This song we raise, Lord Throughout the endless ages You will be crowned with praises, Lord Most High Exalted in every nation Sovereign of all creation Lord Most High, be magnified|KBC-88
english|There is a Redeemer||There is a Redeemer Jesus God's own Son Precious Lamb of God Messiah Holy One Thank You O my Father For giving me Your Son And leaving Your Spirit 'till The work on earth is done Jesus my Redeemer Name above all names Precious Lamb of God Messiah Hope for sinners slain Thank You O my Father For giving me Your Son And leaving Your Spirit 'till The work on earth is done When I stand in glory I will see His face And there I'll serve my King forever In that holy place Thank You O my Father For giving me Your Son And leaving Your Spirit 'till The work on earth is done|KBC-89
english|I Love Your Grace||I love Your grace I love Your mercy I love the way You help me when I fall I love Your truth I love the power of Your name But You know I love Your presence Most of all My soul takes refuge In the shadow of Your wings Close to You is where I want to be You are my strength You are my God You are my King And all I want is what You want for me I love Your grace I love Your mercy I love the way You help me when I fall I love Your truth I love the power of Your name But You know I love Your presence Most of all|KBC-90
english|Lord Jesus I Love You||Lord Jesus I love You Lord Jesus I love You And I'm so glad to know You I'm going to live to show You That I do (I do) Love You (Love You) When I think of all The wonders You've created When I realize Your love With the rocks and trees I'll shout and sing Your praises That I do (I do) Love You (Love You)|KBC-91
english|I Sing The Mighty Power Of God||I sing the mighty power of God That made the mountains rise That spread the flowing seas abroad And built the lofty skies I sing the wisdom that ordained The sun to rule the day The moon shines full at His command And all the stars obey I sing the goodness of the Lord That filled the earth with food He formed the creatures with His word And then pronounced them good Lord how Thy wonders are displayed Where e'er I turn my eye If I survey the ground I tread Or gaze upon the sky There's not a plant or flower below But makes Thy glories known And clouds arise and tempests blow By order from Thy throne While all that borrows life from Thee Is ever in Thy care And everywhere that man can be Thou God art present there|KBC-92
english|I Lift My Eyes Up||I lift my eyes up Up to the mountains Where does my help come from My help comes from You Maker of heaven Creator of the earth Oh how I need You Lord You are my only hope You're my only prayer And I will wait for You To come and rescue me To come and give me life I lift my eyes up Up to the mountains Where does my help come from|KBC-93
english|Come Thou Fount Of Every Blessing||Come Thou fount of every blessing Tune my heart to sing Thy grace Streams of mercy never ceasing Call for songs of loudest praise Teach me some melodious sonnet Sung by flaming tongues above Praise the mount I'm fixed upon it Mount of Thy redeeming love Here I raise to Thee an altar Hither by Thy help I'm come And I hope by Thy good pleasure Safely to arrive at home Jesus sought me when a stranger Wandring from the fold of God He to rescue me from danger Interposed His precious blood O to grace how great a debtor Daily I'm constrained to be Let Thy goodness like a fetter Bind my wandring heart to Thee Prone to wander Lord I feel it Prone to leave the God I love Here's my heart; O, take and seal it Seal it for Thy courts above|KBC-94
english|Refiner's Fire||Purify my heart Let me be as gold and precious silver Purify my heart Let me be as gold, pure gold Refiner's fire my heart's one desire Is to be holy set apart for You Lord I choose to be holy Set apart for You my Master Ready to do Your will Purify my heart Cleanse me from within And make me holy Purify my heart Cleanse me from my sin, deep within Refiner's fire my heart's one desire Is to be holy set apart for You Lord I choose to be holy Set apart for You my Master Ready to do Your will|KBC-95
english|Knowing You||All I once held dear, built my life upon, All this world reveres and wars to own; All I once thought gain I have counted loss, Spent and worthless now Compared to this. Knowing You, Jesus, knowing You There is no greater thing. You're my all, You're the best, You're my joy, my righteousness, And I love You Lord. Now my heart's desire is to know You more, To be found in You and known as Yours, To possess by faith What I could not earn All surpassing gift Of righteousness Knowing You, Jesus, knowing You There is no greater thing. You're my all, You're the best, You're my joy, my righteousness, And I love You Lord. Oh to know the power of Your risen life, And to know You in Your sufferings; To become like You In Your death, my Lord, So with You to live And never die. Knowing You, Jesus, knowing You There is no greater thing. You're my all, You're the best, You're my joy, my righteousness, And I love You Lord.|KBC-96
english|Lord, You Are||Lord, You are More precious than silver, Lord, You are More costly than gold, Lord, You are More beautiful than diamonds, And nothing I desire compares with You.|KBC-97
english|I Love You Lord||I love you Lord And I lift my voice To worship You Oh my soul rejoice Take joy my King In what You hear May it be a sweet, sweet sound In Your ear|KBC-98
english|Ah Lord God||Ah Lord God Thou hast made the heavens And the earth by Thy great power Ah Lord God Thou hast made the heavens And the earth By Thine outstretched arm Nothing is too difficult for Thee Nothing is too difficult for Thee Great and mighty God Great in council and mighty in deed Nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing Nothing is too difficult for Thee Ah Lord God Thou hast made the heavens And the earth by Thy great power Ah Lord God Thou hast made the heavens And the earth By Thine outstretched arm Nothing is too difficult for Thee Nothing is too difficult for Thee Great and mighty God Great in council and mighty in deed Nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing Nothing is too difficult for Thee|KBC-99
english|Sing For Joy||If we call to Him, He will answer us If we run to Him, He will run to us If we lift our hands, He will lift us up Come now praise His name All ye saints of God Sing for joy to God our strength Sing for joy to God our strength, Our strength Draw near to Him, He is here with us Give Him your love, He's in love with us He will heal our hearts, He will cleanse our hands If we rend our hearts, He will heal our land Sing for joy to God our strength Sing for joy to God our strength, Our strength|KBC-100
english|Lead Me to the Cross||Savior I come quiet my soul Remember Redemptions Hill where Your blood was spilled For my ransom Everything I once held dear, I count it all as lost Lead me to the Cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross You were as I tempted and tried Human The Word became flesh bore my sin and death Now You're Risen Everything I once held dear, I count it all as loss Lead me to the Cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross To Your Heart To Your Heart Lead me to Your Heart Lead me to Your Heart Lead me to the Cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross|KBC-1000
english|I'll Fly Away||Some glad morning when this life is over, I'll fly away To a home on God's celestial shore, I'll fly away I'll fly away, O glory, I'll fly away. When I die, hallelujah, by and by, I'll fly away. Just a few more weary days and then, I'll fly away. To a land where joy shall never end, I'll fly away. I'll fly away, O glory, I'll fly away. When I die, hallelujah, by and by, I'll fly away. When the shadows of this life have gone, I'll fly away. Like a bird from prison bars has flown, I'll fly away. I'll fly away, O glory, I'll fly away. When I die, hallelujah, by and by, I'll fly away.|KBC-101
english|Breathe||This is the air I breathe This is the air I breathe Your holy presence living in me. This is my daily bread This is my daily bread Your very word spoken to me And I, I'm desperate for You And I, I'm lost without You This is the air I breathe This is the air I breathe Your holy presence living in me. This is my daily bread This is my daily bread Your very word spoken to me And I, I'm desperate for You And I, I'm lost without You|KBC-102
english|Jesus, Name Above All Names||Jesus, Name above all names Beautiful Savior Glorious Lord Emmanuel God is with us Blessed Redeemer Living Word|KBC-103
english|Every Move I Make||Every move I make I make in You You make me move Jesus Every breath I take I breathe in You Every step I take I take in You You are my way, Jesus Every breath I take I breathe in You Waves of mercy, waves of grace Everywhere I look, I see Your face Your love has captured me O, my God, this love, how can it be? Every move I make I make in You You make me move, Jesus Every breath I take I breathe in You Every step I take I take in You You are my way Jesus Every breath I take I breathe in You Waves of mercy, waves of grace Everywhere I look, I see Your face Your love has captured me O, my God, this love, how can it be?|KBC-104
english|I Waited||I waited for the Lord on high, I waited and He heard my cry He pulled me out of my despair He taught me how to walk From fear into security From quicksand to the rock... I waited for the Lord on high, I waited and He heard my cry I sing to let the people know That I have been restored And they will kneel and understand To return and trust the Lord... And there's a new song In my heart to sing A new song praises to my King|KBC-105
english|Micah 6:8||He has shown thee (echo) O man (echo) What is good and what the Lord requires of thee But to do justly (echo) And to love mercy (echo) And to walk humbly with thy God|KBC-106
english|Salvation Belongs to Our God||Salvation belongs to our God Who sits upon the throne And unto the Lamb. Praise and glory, Wisdom and thanks, Honor and power and strength... Be to our God forever and ever Be to our God forever and ever Be to our God forever and ever AMEN! And we the redeemed shall be strong In purpose and unity, Declaring aloud Praise and glory, Wisdom and thanks, Honor and power and strength... Be to our God forever and ever Be to our God forever and ever Be to our God forever and ever AMEN!|KBC-107
english|Light the Fire||I stand to praise You But I fall on my knees The spirit is willing But the flesh is so weak Light the fire (light the fire) In my soul (in my weary soul) Fan the flame (fan the flame) Make me whole (make my spirit whole) Lord you know (Lord you know) Where I've been (where I've been) So light the fire in my heart again I feel Your arms around me As the power of Your healing begins Your Spirit moves through me Like a mighty rushing wind Light the fire (light the fire) In my soul (in my weary soul) Fan the flame (fan the flame) Make me whole (make my spirit whole) Lord you know (Lord you know) Where I've been (where I've been) So light the fire in my heart again|KBC-108
english|Open the Eyes of my Heart||Open the eyes of my heart Lord Open the eyes of my heart I want to see You I want to see You To see You high and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy I want to see You Open the eyes of my heart Lord Open the eyes of my heart I want to see You I want to see You To see You high and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy I want to see You|KBC-109
english|Joshua 1:9; Matthew 28:19, 20||Have I not commanded you Be strong and courageous Do not tremble or be dismayed Oh, do not tremble or be dismayed For the Lord your God is with you Wherever you go Go therefore and make disciples Of all the nations Baptizing them in the name Of the Father and the Son And the Holy Spirit Oh teaching them to observe All that I have commanded you And lo I am with you always Even to the end of the age|KBC-110
english|Psalm 9:1,2||I'll give thanks to the Lord With all my heart I will tell of all Thy wonders I will be glad and exalt in Thee I'll sing praise to Thy name I'll sing praise to Thy name I'll sing praise to Thy name O Most High|KBC-111
english|Psalm 17:15||As for me I shall behold Thy face in righteousness I shall be satisfied with Thy likeness when I awake When I awake, when I awake|KBC-112
english|Psalm 19:7-10||The law of the Lord is perfect Restoring the soul The testimony of the Lord is sure Making wise the simple They are more desirable than gold Yes, than much fine gold Sweeter also than honey And the drippings of the honeycomb The precepts of the Lord are right Rejoicing the heart The commandment of the Lord is pure Enlightening the eyes They are more desirable than gold Yes, than much fine gold Sweeter also than honey And the drippings of the honeycomb The fear of the Lord is clean Enduring forever The judgements of the Lord are true They are righteous altogether They are more desirable than gold Yes, than much fine gold Sweeter also than honey And the drippings of the honeycomb|KBC-113
english|Psalm 20:6-8||Some boast in chariots And some in horses But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God Some boast in Cadillacs And some in Porsches But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God Now I know that the Lord Saves His anointed He will answer them From His holy heaven With the saving strength Of His right hand They have bowed down and fallen But we have risen and stood upright. Some boast in chariots And some in horses But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God Some boast in Cadillacs And some in Porsches But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God|KBC-114
english|Psalm 25:8-10, 4-5||Good and upright is the Lord Therefore will He teach sinners in the way The meek will He guide in judgment The meek will He teach His way All the paths of the Lord Are mercy and truth Unto such as keep His covenants And His testimonies Show me Thy way O Lord And teach me Thy paths Lead me in Thy truth and teach me For Thou art the God of my salvation And on Thee do I wait all the day Good and upright is the Lord Therefore will He teach sinners in the way The meek will He guide in judgment The meek will He teach His way All the paths of the Lord Are mercy and truth Unto such as keep His covenants And His testimonies Show me Thy way O Lord And teach me Thy paths Lead me in Thy truth and teach me For Thou art the God of my salvation And on Thee do I wait all the day|KBC-115
english|Ring The Bells||Ring the bells, ring the bells, Let the whole world know Christ was born in Bethlehem Many years ago: Born to die that man might live, Came to earth new life to give, Born of Mary, born so low, Many years ago. God the Father gave His Son, Gave His own beloved One To this wicked, sinful earth, To bring mankind His love, new birth: Ring the bells, ring the bells, Let the whole world know Christ the Savior lives today As He did so long ago!|KBC-1155
english|Rock of Ages||Rock of ages cleft for me Let me hide myself in Thee Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side which flowed Be of sin the double cure Save me from its guilt and pow'r Not the labors of my hands Can fulfill the law's demands Could my zeal no respite know Could my tears forever flow All for sin could not atone Thou must save and Thou alone Nothing in my hand I bring Simply to Thy cross I cling Naked come to Thee for dress Helpless look to Thee for grace Foul I to the fountain fly Wash me Savior or I die While I draw this fleeting breath When my eyes shall close in death When I soar to worlds unknown See Thee on Thy judgment throne Rock of ages cleft for me Let me hide myself in Thee|KBC-116
english|Psalm 28:6,7||Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord The Lord is my strength and shield And in Him my heart trusts The Lord is my strength and shield And in Him my heart trusts Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord So am I helped and my heart exalts And with my song I give thanks to Him So am I helped and my heart exalts And with my song I give thanks to Him Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord Blessed be the Lord|KBC-117
english|Psalm 30:4-5||Sing praise to the Lord You His Godly ones And give thanks to His holy name For His anger is but for a moment Weeping may last for the night But his favor is for a lifetime And a shout of joy Comes in the morning light|KBC-118
english|Psalm 34:1-4||I will bless the Lord at all times His praise shall continually Be in my mouth My soul shall make its boast in the Lord The humble shall hear it and rejoice O magnify the Lord with me And let us exalt His name together I sought the Lord and He answered me And delivered me from all my fears|KBC-119
english|Psalm 37:23, 3-5||The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way Trust in the Lord and do good Dwell in the land And cultivate faithfulness Trust in the Lord and do good The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way Delight yourself in the Lord And He will give you The desires of your heart Delight yourself in the Lord The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way Commit your way to the Lord Trust also in Him And He will do it Commit your way to the Lord The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way The steps of a man Are established by the Lord And He delights in His way|KBC-120
english|Psalm 42:1-2, 5||As the deer pants for the water brooks So my soul pants for Thee O God My soul thirsts of God For the living God When shall I come and appear before God When shall I come and appear before God When shall I come and appear before God Before the living God As the deer pants for the water brooks So my soul pants for Thee O God My soul thirsts of God For the living God Hope in God for I shall again praise Him Hope in God for I shall again praise Him Hope in God for I shall again praise Him For the help of His presence As the deer pants for the water brooks So my soul pants for Thee O God My soul thirsts of God For the living God|KBC-121
english|Psalm 45:1-4||My heart overflows with a good theme I address my verse to the King My tongue is the pen of a ready writer Thou art fairer than the sons of men Grace is poured out upon Thy lips Therefore God has blessed Thee forever Forever Gird thy sword on Thy thigh O mighty one In thy splendor and Thy majesty And in Thy majesty ride on victoriously For the cause of truth and meekness And righteousness Grace is poured out upon Thy lips Therefore God has blessed Thee forever Forever My heart overflows with a good theme I address my verse to the King My tongue is the pen of a ready writer Thou art fairer than the sons of men|KBC-122
english|Revelation 5:9-14||Worthy art Thou to take the book And to break its seals Worthy art Thou to take the book And to break its seals For Thou wast slain and didst Purchase for God with Thy blood Men, Men, from every tribe And tongue and people and nation men And Thou hast made them to be A kingdom and priests And Thou hast made them to be A kingdom and priests to our God And they will reign upon the earth Men, men from every tribe And tongue and people and nation men And I looked And I heard the voice of many angels Around the throne And the living creatures and the elders, And the number of them Was myriads of myriads, And thousands of thousands Saying with a loud voice Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb. Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb. That was slain to receive Power and riches and wisdom and might, Honor and glory and blessing Worthy is the Lamb, is the Lamb And every created thing Which is in heaven and on the earth And under the earth, and on the sea And all things in them, I heard saying To Him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb To Him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb Be blessing and honor and glory And dominion forever and ever And the four living creatures Kept saying amen And the elders fell down and worshipped And the elders fell down Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen.|KBC-123
english|Psalm 47||O clap your hands all ye peoples Shout to God with the voice of joy For the Lord Most high is to be feared A great King over all the earth He subdues the people under us And the nations under our feet He chooses an inheritance for us The glory of Jacob whom He loves O clap your hands all ye peoples Shout to God with the voice of joy For the Lord Most high is to be feared A great King over all the earth God has ascended with a shout The Lord with the sound of the trumpet Sing praises to the God sing praises sing praises to our King For God is the King of all the earth Sing praises with a skillful psalm God reigns over all the nations God sits on His holy throne The princes of the people Have assembled themselves As the people of the God of Abraham The shields of the earth Belong to God He is highly exalted O clap your hands all ye peoples Shout to God with the voice of joy For the Lord Most high is to be feared A great King over all the earth|KBC-124
english|Psalm 51:10-12||Create in me a clean heart O God And renew a right spirit within me Create in me a clean heart O God And renew a right spirit within me Cast me not away From Thy presence O Lord Take not Thy Holy Spirit from me Restore unto me The joy of Thy salvation And renew a right spirit within me|KBC-125
english|Psalm 55:22, 16-17||Cast Thy burden upon the Lord And He will sustain you He will never suffer the righteous To be moved As for me I shall call upon God And the Lord will save me Evening and morning and afternoon Will I pray and cry aloud And He will hear my voice Cast Thy burden upon the Lord And He will sustain you He will never suffer the righteous To be moved|KBC-126
english|Psalm 57:7-11||My heart is steadfast O God. O God my heart is steadfast. I will sing, yes I will sing praises. My heart is steadfast O God Awake my glory, awake harp and lyre. Awake my glory, awake harp and lyre. I will awaken the dawn I will give thanks unto Thee O Lord Among, among the peoples. I will sing praises to Thee O Lord Among, among the nations For Thy lovingkindness Is great to the heavens, And Thy truth is great to the clouds. Be exalted above the heavens O God, O God, let Thy glory be above all the earth My heart is steadfast O God. O God my heart is steadfast. I will sing, yes I will sing praises. My heart is steadfast O God Awake my glory, awake harp and lyre. Awake my glory, awake harp and lyre. I will awaken the dawn I will give thanks unto Thee O Lord Among, among the peoples. I will sing praises to Thee O Lord Among, among the nations|KBC-127
english|Psalm 63:1 capo to fret 2||O God Thou art my God Early will I seek Thee O God Thou art my God Early will I seek Thee My soul thirsteth for Thee My flesh longeth for Thee In a dry and thirsty land Where no water is O God Thou art my God Early will I seek Thee|KBC-128
english|Psalm 67||God be gracious to us and bless us And cause His face to shine upon us That Thy way may be known on the earth Thy salvation among all nations Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee Let the nations be glad and sing for joy And sing for joy For Thou wilt judge The peoples with uprightness And guide the nations on the earth Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee The earth has yielded its produce God, our God, blesses us God blesses us That all the ends of the earth May fear Him Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee Let the peoples praise Thee O God Let all the peoples praise Thee|KBC-129
english|Psalm 70:4||Let all who seek Thee Rejoice and be glad in Thee Let all who seek Thee Rejoice and be glad in Thee And let those who love, Love Thy salvation Say continually Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let all who seek Thee Rejoice and be glad in Thee Let all who seek Thee Rejoice and be glad in Thee And let those who love, Love Thy salvation Say continually Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified Let God be magnified!|KBC-130
english|Psalm 73:25-26||Whom have I (Whom have I) In heaven but Thee (in heaven but Thee) And there is none upon the earth That I desire besides Thee My flesh and my heart may fail But God is the strength of my heart And my portion forevermore Whom have I (Whom have I) In heaven but Thee (in heaven but Thee) And there is none upon the earth That I desire besides Thee My flesh and my heart may fail But God is the strength of my heart And my portion forevermore|KBC-131
english|Psalm 79:13||So we Thy people And the sheep of Thy pasture Will give thanks to Thee forever To all generations We will tell of Thy praise So we Thy people And the sheep of Thy pasture Will give thanks to Thee forever|KBC-132
english|Psalm 86:11-12||Teach me Thy way O Lord I will walk in Thy truth Unite my heart to fear My heart to fear Thy name I will give thanks To Thee O Lord my God With all my heart And will glorify Thy name O Lord Thy name forevermore Teach me Thy way O Lord I will walk in Thy truth Unite my heart to fear My heart to fear Thy name|KBC-133
english|Psalm 97:9||For You are the Lord Most High Over all the earth You are exalted far above all gods I exalt You, I exalt You I exalt You O most high|KBC-134
english|Psalm 97:10-12||Hate evil you who love the Lord Who preserves the soul of His Godly ones He delivers them From the hand of the wicked Light is sown Like seed for the righteous And gladness for The upright in heart Be glad in the Lord You righteous ones And give thanks And give thanks And give thanks To His holy name And give thanks And give thanks And give thanks To His holy name|KBC-135
english|Revelation 15:3-4||And they sang The song of Moses, Servant of God, And the song of the Lamb, Saying, "Great, Great and marvelous Are Thy works, Lord God Almighty" Just and true Are Thy ways, O Lord, Thou King of the saints Who will not fear Thee, O Lord, And glorify Thy name? For Thou alone Only art holy" And they sang The song of Moses Servant of God And the song of the Lamb Saying, "Great Great and marvelous Are Thy works Lord God Almighty" Just and true Are Thy ways O Lord Thou King of the saints Who will not fear Thee O Lord And glorify Thy name For Thou alone Only art holy"|KBC-136
english|Ephesians 2:8-10||For by grace You have been saved through faith And that not of yourselves It is the gift of God Not as a result of works So that no one may boast For we are His workmanship Created in Christ Jesus For good works Which God prepared beforehand So that we would walk in them|KBC-137
english|Galatians 2:20, Colossians 3:1-3||I am crucified with Christ Nevertheless, I live Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me And the life I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God Who loved me and gave Himself for me Who loved me, Who loved me Who loved me and gave Himself for me And the life I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God Who loved me and gave Himself for me If you then be risen with Christ Seek those things which are above Where Christ sitteth At the right hand of God Set your affections on things above Not on the things of the earth For you are dead and your life Is hidden with Christ in God You are dead, you are dead You are dead and your life is Hidden with Christ in God Set your affections on things above Not on the things of the earth For you are dead and your life Is hidden with Christ in God|KBC-138
english|Jude 24, 25||Now to Him who is able to keep you Who is able to keep you from stumbling And to make you stand in the presence Of His glory blameless with great joy To the only God our Saviour Through Jesus Christ our Lord Be glory, majesty, dominion and power Before all time and now and forever Amen, Amen. Amen, Amen. Amen, Amen. Amen, Amen, Amen.|KBC-139
english|Philippians 4:4||Rejoice in the Lord always, And again I say rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always, And again I say rejoice. Rejoice, rejoice, again I say rejoice. Rejoice, rejoice, again I say rejoice.|KBC-140
english|I Timothy 1:17||Now unto the King eternal, Immortal, invisible, the only true God, Be honor and glory forever and ever, Amen, amen, Be honor and glory forever and ever, Amen.|KBC-141
english|I Timothy 2:5||For there is one God and one Mediator Between God and man For there is one God and one Mediator, The Man Christ Jesus Who gave Himself a ransom for us all. Who gave Himself a ransom for us all. Who gave Himself a ransom for us all. O what a wonderful Savior! For there is one God and one Mediator Between God and man For there is one God and one Mediator, The Man Christ Jesus|KBC-142
english|I Timothy 4:12||Let no one look down, Let no one look down, Let no one look down On your youthfulness But rather in speech, conduct, Love, faith, and purity Show yourself an example Of those who believe Let no one look down, Let no one look down, Let no one look down On your youthfulness Let no one look down, Let no one look down, Let no one look down On your youthfulness|KBC-143
english|Titus 3:5||Not by works of righteousness Which we have done But according to His mercy He saved us By the washing of regeneration And renewing of the Holy Ghost|KBC-144
english|Revelation 4:11||Thou art worthy, Thou art worthy, Thou art worthy, oh Lord, Thou art worthy to receive glory, Glory and honor and power For Thou has created, Hast all things created, Thou hast created all things. And for Thy pleasure they are created Thou art worthy, oh Lord|KBC-145
english|Dear Jesus||Dear Jesus, Thou art everything to me, And everything I own I give to Thee; My wealth, my all, But most of all, Dear Lord, I give myself to Thee Dear Jesus, Thou hast bled and died for me And washed away my sins On Calvary You cleansed my soul, Tou made me whole, Dear Lord, I give myself to Thee Dear Jesus, Thou has led me day by day, And set my will to follow All the way To bear my cross, To suffer loss Dear Lord, I give myself to Thee|KBC-146
english|The B-I-B-L-E||The B-I-B-L-E Yes that's the Book for me I stand alone On the Word of God The B-I-B-L-E The B-L-O-O-D The blood that cleanses me I stand alone On the Cornerstone The B-L-O-O-D|KBC-147
english|Psalm 98||O sing to the Lord a new song For He has done wonderful things Wonderful things His right hand and His holy arm Have gained the victory for Him The Lord has made known His salvation He has revealed His righteousness In the sight of the nations He has remembered His lovingkindness And His faithfulness To the house of Israel All the ends of the earth Have seen the salvation of our God Shout joyfully to the Lord all the earth Break forth and sing for joy sing praises Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre With the lyre and the sound of melody With trumpets and the sound of the horn Shout joyfully before the King the Lord Let the sea roar and all it contains The world and those who dwell in it Let the rivers clap their hands, let the Mountains sing together for joy before the Lord, for He is coming to judge the earth He will judge the world with righteousness And the peoples with equity O alleluia, O alleluia, O alleluia O sing to the Lord a new song For he has done wonderful things Wonderful things His right hand and His holy arm Have gained the victory for Him|KBC-148
english|Luke 12:32, 40; James 5:8||Do not be afraid little flock For the Father has chosen Gladly to give you the kingdom You too be ready For the Son of Man is coming At an hour that you do not expect You too be patient Strengthen your hearts For the coming of The Lord is at hand|KBC-149
english|Psalm 100||Make a joyful noise unto the Lord All ye, all ye lands Serve the Lord, the Lord with gladness Come before His presence with singing Know ye that the Lord He is God It is He that hath made us And not we ourselves, we are His people And the sheep of His pasture Enter into His gates with thanksgiving And into His courts with praise Be thankful unto Him And bless, bless His name For the Lord the Lord is good His mercy is everlasting And His truth, His truth endureth Endureth to all generations Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord!|KBC-150
english|Amazing Grace||Amazing grace, how sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost but now am found Was blind but now I see T'was grace that taught my heart to fear And grace my fears relieved How precious did that grace appear The hour I first believed Through many dangers toils and snares I have already come Tis grace hath brought me safe thus far And grace will lead me home When we've been there ten thousand years Bright shining as the sun We've no less days to sing God's grace Then when we first begun|KBC-151
english|Love Lifted Me||I was sinking deep in sin Far from the peaceful shore Very deeply stained within Sinking to rise no more But the Master of the sea Heard my despairing cry From the waters lifted me Now safe am I Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me! Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me! All my heart to Him I give Ever to Him I'll cling In His blessed presence live Ever His praises sing Love so mighty and so true Merits my soul's best songs Faithful, loving service, too, To Him belong Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me! Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me! Souls in danger, look above Jesus completely saves He will lift you by His love Out of the angry waves He's the Master of the sea Billows His will obey He your Savior wants to be Be saved today Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me! Love lifted me! Love lifted me! When nothing else could help Love lifted me!|KBC-152
english|Lord I Lift Your Name on High||Lord I lift Your Name on high Lord I love to sing Your praises I'm so glad You're in my life I'm so glad You came to save us You came from heaven to earth To show the way From the earth to the cross My debt to pay From the cross to the grave From the grave to the sky Lord I lift Your Name on high|KBC-153
english|Psalm 115:1-3||Not to us O Lord but to Thy name give glory Not to us O Lord but to Thy name give glory Because of Thy lovingkindness Because of Thy truth Not to us O Lord but to Thy name give glory Not to us O Lord but to Thy name give glory Why should the nations say Where now is their God But our God is in the heavens He does whatever He pleases Not to us O Lord but to Thy name give glory|KBC-154
english|They All Were Used of God||Shamgar had an oxgoad David had a sling. Dorcas had a needle, Rahab had some string, Samson had a jawbone, Moses had a rod, Mary had some ointment, but They all were used of God Zebedee owned a fish boat, Jochebed used some tar, Martha had a kitchen, Gideon broke a jar, Balaam rode a donkey, Elisha made some stew, Jael used a hammer (Ouch!) But God used these things too. Naaman heard his slave girl, A boy gave fish and bread, A widow fed Elijah, Some received their dead. A poor man saved a city, A wise man brought some myrrh, Though their names are not recorded God knows who they were.|KBC-155
english|Jesus Loves Even Me||I am so glad that our Father in heaven Tells of His love in the Book He has given Wonderful things in the Bible I see This is the dearest that Jesus loves me I am so glad that Jesus loves me Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me I am so glad that Jesus loves me, Jesus loves even me. Tho' I forget Him and wander away Still He doth love me wherever I stray Back to His dear loving arms would I flee When I remember that Jesus loves me I am so glad that Jesus loves me Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me I am so glad that Jesus loves me, Jesus loves even me. Oh, if there's only one song I can sing, When in His beauty I see the great King, This shall my song in eternity be: Oh, what a wonder that Jesus loves me." I am so glad that Jesus loves me Jesus loves me, Jesus loves me I am so glad that Jesus loves me, Jesus loves even me.|KBC-156
english|Redeemed||Redeemed--how I love to proclaim it! Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed through His infinite mercy, His child, and forever, I am Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. Redeemed and so happy in Jesus, No language my rapture can tell; I know that the light of His presence With me doth continually dwell. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. I think of my blessed Redeemer, I think of Him all the day long; I sing, for I cannot be silent; His love is the theme of my song. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. I know I shall see in His beauty the King in whose law I delight; Who lovingly guardeth my footsteps, And giveth me songs in the night. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am.|KBC-157
english|When I Survey / Open The Eyes||Open the eyes of my heart Lord Open the eyes of my heart I want to see You I want to see You When I survey the wondrous cross On which the Lord of glory died, My richest gain I count but loss, And pour contempt on all my pride. Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, Save in the death of Christ my God! All the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to His blood. See from His head, His hands, His feet, Sorrow and love flow mingled down! Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, Or thorns compose so rich a crown? To see You high and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy High and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were an offering far too small: Love so amazing, so divine, Demands my heart, my life, my all.|KBC-159
english|Hear O Lord And Answer||Hear O Lord and answer, I am poor and needy, Guard my life for I am devoted to You Hear my prayer O Lord and my cry for mercy In this day of trouble I will call to You Teach me O Lord, I will walk in Your truth Give me an undivided heart. Nations You've made will worship You For You alone are the living God I will praise You, I will praise You Glorify Your name O Lord I will praise You, I will praise You Glorify Your name O Lord|KBC-160
english|You're Worthy of My Praise||I will worship (I will worship) With all of my heart (With all of my heart) I will praise You (I will praise You) With all of my strength (All my strength) I will seek You (I will seek You) All of my days (All of my days) I will follow (I will follow) All of Your ways (All Your ways) I will give You all my worship I will give You all my praise You alone I long to worship You alone are worthy of my praise I will bow down (I will bow down) And hail You as King (Hail You as King) I will serve You (I will serve You) Give You everything (Give You everything) I will lift up (I will lift up) My eyes to Your throne (echo) I will trust You (I will trust You) I will trust You alone (Trust You alone) I will give You all my worship I will give You all my praise You alone I long to worship You alone are worthy of my praise|KBC-161
english|Here I am to Worship||Light of the world You stepped down into darkness Opened my eyes let me see Beauty that made this heart adore You Hope of a life spent with You So here I am to worship Here I am to bow down Here I am to say that You're my God You're altogether lovely Altogether worthy Altogether wonderful to me King of all days oh so highly exalted Glorious in heaven above Humbly You came to the earth You created All for love's sake became poor So here I am to worship Here I am to bow down Here I am to say that You're my God You're altogether lovely Altogether worthy Altogether wonderful to me And I'll never know how much it cost To see my sin upon that cross And I'll never know how much it cost To see my sin upon that cross So here I am to worship Here I am to bow down Here I am to say that You're my God You're altogether lovely Altogether worthy Altogether wonderful to me Light of the world You stepped down into darkness Opened my eyes let me see|KBC-162
english|Pour Out My Heart||Here I am once again. I pour out my heart For I know that You hear every cry. You are listening No matter what state my heart is in. You are faithful to answer With words that are true And a hope that is real. As I feel Your touch You bring a freedom to all that's within In the safety of this place I'm longing to pour out my heart To say that I love You Pour out my heart To say that I need You Pour out my heart To say that I'm thankful Pour out my heart To say that You're wonderful. Here I am once again. I pour out my heart For I know that You hear every cry. You are listening No matter what state my heart is in. 7You are faithful to answer With words that are true And a hope that is real. As I feel Your touch You bring a freedom to all that's within In the safety of this place I'm longing to pour out my heart To say that I love You Pour out my heart To say that I need You Pour out my heart To say that I'm thankful Pour out my heart To say that You're wonderful. To say that You're wonderful.|KBC-163
english|Your Life Laid Down||Your life laid down, crucified Your arms stretched out and open wide To rescue me so I could be a child of God The nail pierced hands The thorn pierced brow Your blood flows down to me somehow It cleanses me So I can be a child of God Praise to the Lamb That was slain Praise to the Father Who gave His Son away The proof of love The price of grace You traded all to take my place You died for me So I could be a child of God|KBC-164
english|Abide With Me||Abide with me Fast falls the eventide The darkness deepens Lord with me abide When other helpers fail And comforts flee Help of the helpless O abide with me Swift to its close Ebbs out life's little day Earth's joys grow dim Its glories pass away Change and decay In all around I see O Thou Who changest not Abide with me I need Thy presence Ev'ry passing hour What but Thy grace Can foil the tempter's pow'r Who like Thyself My guide and stay can be? Thro' cloud and sunshine O abide with me Hold Thou Thy cross Before my closing eyes Shine thro' the gloom And point me to the skies Heav'n's morning breaks And earth's vain shadows flee In life, in death O Lord Abide with me|KBC-165
english|Lamentations 3:22,23||The Lord's lovingkindnesses Indeed never cease For His compassions never fail They are new every morning They are new every day They are new every morning Great is Thy faithfulness|KBC-166
english|Isaiah 60:1-3||Arise, shine; for your light has come, And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you For behold, darkness will cover the earth, And deep darkness the peoples; But the Lord will rise upon you, And His glory will appear upon you. Nations will come to your light, But the Lord will rise upon you, And His glory will appear upon you. Kings to the brightness of your rising.|KBC-167
english|The Lion of Judah||My rest is in heaven, My rest is not here, Then why should I murmur When trials are near? Be hushed, my sad spirit; The worst that can come But shortens the journey And hastens me home For the Lion of Judah Shall break every chain And give us the vict'ry Again and again. It is not for me To be seeking my bliss, And building my hopes In a region like this; I look for a city Which hands have not piled, I pant for a country By sin undefiled For the Lion of Judah Shall break every chain And give us the vict'ry Again and again. Let trial and danger My progress oppose, They only make heaven More sweet at the close; Come joy or come sorrow, Whate'er may befall, A home with my God Will make up for it all. For the Lion of Judah Shall break every chain And give us the vict'ry Again and again. With Christ in my heart, And His Word in my hand, I travel in haste, Through an enemy's land; The road may be rough, But it cannot be long, So I journey on, Singing the conqueror's song. For the Lion of Judah Shall break every chain And give us the vict'ry Again and again.|KBC-168
english|Galatians 5:22-23||The fruit of the Spirit's not a __________ The fruit of the Spirit's not a __________ If you want to be a _________ You might as well hear it, You can't be a fruit of the Spirit Cause the fruit is love, joy, peace, Patience, kindness, goodness, Faithfulness, gentleness and self-control Love, joy, peace, patience, Kindness, goodness, faithfulness, Gentleness, and self-control|KBC-169
english|Psalm 18:46||Oh, magnify the Lord For He is worthy to be praised Oh, magnify the Lord For He is worthy to be praised Hosanah, blessed be the Rock; Blessed be the Rock of my salvation. Hosanah, blessed be the Rock; And may the God of my salvation be exalted.|KBC-170
english|Psalm 59:16, 17||But as for me, I will sing of Thy strength; Yes, I shall joyfully sing of Thy lovingkindness In the morning, For Thou hast been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress. Oh my strength, I will sing, Praises to Thee; for God is my stronghold, The God who shows me lovingkindness.|KBC-171
english|Psalm 79:13||So we Thy people And the sheep of Thy pasture Will give thanks to Thee forever; So we Thy people And the sheep of Thy pasture Will give thanks to Thee forever; To all generations we will tell of Thy praise. To all generations we will tell of Thy praise. So we Thy people And the sheep of Thy pasture Will give thanks to Thee forever.|KBC-172
english|Psalm 89:1||I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing, I will sing. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing of the mercies of the Lord. With my mouth Will I make known Thy faithfulness, Thy faithfulness. With my mouth Will I make known Thy faithfulness to all generations. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing of the mercies of the Lord.|KBC-173
english|Psalm 116:12-13||What shall I give unto the Lord for all, for all, for all He's done for me? I'll take the cup of salvation, and call, and call, and call upon the name of the Lord.|KBC-174
english|Psalm 117||Praise the Lord, all nations; Laud Him, all peoples! For His lovingkindness is great towards us, And the truth of the Lord is everlasting. Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord!|KBC-175
english|Psalm 118:24||This the day (This the day) That the Lord has made; We will rejoice (We will rejoice) And be glad in it. (And be glad in it) Oh, this is the day that the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it! Oh, this is the day (Oh, this is the day) That the Lord has made. This is the day (This is the day) That the Lord may come. Let us rejoice, (Let us rejoice,) Fix our hope on Him. (Fix our hope on Him.) Yes this is the day that the Lord may come, Let us rejoice, fix our hope on Him. Oh, this is the day (Oh, this is the day) that the Lord may come.|KBC-176
english|Psalm 119:9-11||Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed to Thy Word. By taking heed to Thy Word. With my whole heart, I have sought Thee; With my whole heart, I have sought Thee; With my whole heart, I have sought Thee; Oh let me not wander from Thy commands. Oh let me not wander from Thy commands. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed to Thy Word. By taking heed to Thy Word.|KBC-177
english|Psalm 119: 97-98||Oh how I love Thy law, O Lord! (echo) It is my meditation all the day. (echo) Thy commandments make me wiser Than my enemies, For they are ever mine, For they are ever mine. For they are ever mine.|KBC-178
english|Psalm 121||I will lift up my eyes to the mountains; From whence shall my help come? My help comes from the Lord, Who made the heaven and earth. He will not allow your foot to slip; He who keeps you will not slumber Behold, He who keeps Israel Will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper; The Lord is the shade on your right hand, The sun will not smite you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will protect you from all evil; He will keep your soul. The Lord will guard your going out And your coming in. From this time forth and forever, From whence shall my help come? My help comes from the Lord, Who made the heaven and earth.|KBC-179
english|Psalm 123:1-2||To Thee do I lift up my eyes, O Thou, Who art enthroned in the heavens! Behold, as the eyes of servants Look to the hand of their master, As the eyes of a maid Look to the hand of her mistress; So our eyes look to the Lord our God. So our eyes look to the Lord our God. Until He shall be gracious to us.|KBC-180
english|Psalm 130:3-8||I wait for the Lord, my soul does wait, And in His word do I hope. My soul waits for the Lord More than watchmen for the morning; More than watchmen for the morning. If Thou, O Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with Thee. That Thou mayest be feared. O Israel, hope in the Lord; For with the Lord there is lovingkindness, And with Him is abundant redemption. And He will redeem Israel From all his iniquities. If Thou, O Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with Thee, That Thou mayest be feared.|KBC-181
english|Psalm 138:4-6||All the kings of the earth Will give thanks to Thee, O Lord, When they have heard the words Of Thy mouth. And they will sing of the ways of the Lord. For great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is exalted, Yet He regards the lowly; But the haughty He knows from afar. All the kings of the earth Will give thanks to Thee, O Lord, When they have heard the words Of Thy mouth.|KBC-182
english|Proverbs 4:18||The path of the righteous Is like the light of the dawn, The path of the righteous Is like the light of the dawn, It grows brighter and brighter- It grows brighter and brighter- It grows brighter and brighter Until the light of day.|KBC-183
english|Isaiah 40:31||They that wait upon the Lord Shall renew their strength; They will mount up with wings as eagles, They shall run and not be weary; They shall walk and not faint! Teach me, Lord; teach me, Lord, to wait. Teach me, Lord, to wait- down on my knees Till in Your own good time You answer my pleas, Teach me not to rely on what others do, But to wait in prayer for an answer from You. They that wait upon the Lord Shall renew their strength; They shall mount up with wings as eagles, They shall run and not be weary; They shall walk and not faint! Teach me, Lord; teach me, Lord, to wait.|KBC-184
english|Isaiah 55:1, Revelation 22:17||Every one who thirsteth, Come ye to the waters, He that hath no money, Come ye, buy and eat. Every one that thirsteth Come ye to the waters, yea, come Buy wine and milk Without money and without price. And the Spirit and the Bride say, "Come." And let the one who hears say, "Come." And let the one who's thirsty come, Let the one who wishes Take the water of life without cost. Every one who thirsteth, Come ye to the waters, He that hath no money, Come ye, buy and eat. Every one that thirsteth Come ye to the water, yea, come Buy wine and milk Without money and without price.|KBC-185
english|Matthew 6:33, 7:7, 4:4||Seek ye first the kingdom of God And His righteousness; And all these things shall be added unto you. Allelu, alleluia! Ask, and it shall be given unto you; Seek, and ye shall find; Knock, and the door Shall be opened unto you. Allelu, alleluia! Man shall not live by bread alone, But by every word That proceeds from the mouth of God. Allelu, alleluia!|KBC-187
english|The Work Song||We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day; We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day; Night is coming, When no man can work. The harvest is plentiful, But the laborers are few. Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest To send out workers into His harvest. Truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, The works that I do shall he do also; And greater works than these shall he do; That the Father may be glorified in the Son... the Son... the Son. We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day; We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day; Night is coming, When no man can work. Therefore my beloved brethren, Be steadfast, immovable, Always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain In the Lord. Truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, The works that I do shall he do also; And greater works than these shall he do; That the Father may be glorified In the Son... the Son... the Son. We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day. We must work the works of Him who sent us As long as it is day. Night is coming, When no man can work.|KBC-188
english|John 13:34-35||A new commandment I give unto you, That you love one another, As I have loved you, That you love one another, As I have loved you, By this shall all men know That you are My disciples, If you have love one for another. By this shall all men know That you are My disciples, If you have love one for another.|KBC-189
english|John 14:27, 16;33||Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, Nor let your heart be fearful. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. These things I have spoken unto you, That in Me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, But be of good cheer, be of good cheer; For I have overcome the world.|KBC-190
english|Acts 2:42,47||And they were (And they were) Continually (Continually) Devoting themselves To the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, To the breaking of bread and to prayer. And the Lord was (day by day) Adding to their number (day by day) And the Lord was (day by day) Adding to their number (day by day) Those who were being saved.|KBC-191
english|Romans 5:1, 1:17||Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God. Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God. But my righteous one shall live by faith, Shall live by faith. But my righteous one shall live by faith, Shall live by faith. Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God. Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God.|KBC-192
english|Romans 8:1||There is therefore now no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus. There is therefore now no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus Has set you free From the law of sin and death. There is therefore now no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus.|KBC-193
english|Romans 8:35||Who shall separate us From the love of Christ? Who shall separate us From the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, Or famine or nakedness, Neither peril nor sword, From the love of our Lord. Who shall separate us From the love of Christ?|KBC-194
english|I Cor. 5:7-8, Matthew 21:9, Mark 11:9-10||Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us, Therefore let us keep the feast. Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest! Hosanna in the highest! Alleluia. Alleluia. Alleluia. Alleluia.|KBC-195
english|Romans 16:19-20||Romans 16:19 says Romans 16:20 says Be excellent at what is good Be innocent of evil Be excellent at what is good Be innocent of evil The God of peace will soon crush Satan, Yes God will crush him underneath your feet! Be excellent at what is good Be innocent of evil Be excellent at what is good Be innocent of evil The God of peace will soon crush Satan, Yes God will crush him underneath your feet! Romans 16:19 said Romans 16:20 said|KBC-196
english|Philippians 1:21||For me, to live is Christ, to die is gain. To hold His hand and walk the narrow way; There is no peace, no joy, no thrill, Like walking in His will. For me, to live is Christ, to die is gain!|KBC-197
english|I Timothy 3:16||He who was revealed in the flesh, Was vindicated in the Spirit, Beheld by angels, Proclaimed among the nations, Believed on in the world, Was taken up in glory- taken up in glory- taken up in glory- taken up- was taken up.|KBC-198
english|II Timothy 1:7||For God has not given us a spirit of fear, But of power and of love And of sound, sound mind. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Praise the Lord for all He has done. 2... 3... For God has not given us a spirit of fear, But of power and of love And of sound, sound mind.|KBC-199
english|James 4:10||Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, And He will lift you up (higher and higher), And He will lift you up.|KBC-200
english|O, My Savior, Crucified||O my Savior crucified, Near thy cross would I abide, Gazing with adoring eye On Thy dying agony. Jesus bruis'd and put to shame, Tells me all Jehovah's name; God is love, I surely know by the Savior's depths of woe. In His spotless soul's distress B E B I have learnt my guiltiness; O how vile my low estate, Since my ransom was so great! Rent the veil that closed the way To my home of heav'nly day, In the flesh of Christ the Lord. Ever be His name adored! Yet in sight of Calvary, Contrite should my spirit be, Rest and holiness there find Fashioned like my Savior's mind.|KBC-201
english|His Banner Over Me is Love||He brings me to His banqueting table His banner over me is love He brings me to His banqueting table His banner over me is love He brings me to His banqueting table His banner over me is love His banner over me is love I am my Beloved's and He is mine His banner over me is love I am my Beloved's and He is mine His banner over me is love I am my Beloved's and He is mine His banner over me is love His banner over me is love He lifts me up to the heavenly places His banner over me is love He lifts me up to the heavenly places His banner over me is love He lifts me up to the heavenly places His banner over me is love His banner over me is love|KBC-202
english|Tav Psalm 119:169-176||Let my cry come before You, O Lord Give me understanding According to Your word Let my supplication come before You Deliver me according to Your word Let my soul live that it may praise You And let Your ordinances help me I've gone astray like a lost sheep Seek Your servant for I do not forget, No I do not forget what You command Let my lips utter praise to You For You teach me your statutes Let my tongue sing of Your word For all Your commands are righteousness Let my soul live that it may praise You And let Your ordinances help me I've gone astray like a lost sheep Seek Your servant for I do not forget, No I do not forget what You command Let Your hand be ready to help me For I have chosen Your precepts I long for Your salvation O Lord And Your law is my delight Let my soul live that it may praise You And let Your ordinances help me I've gone astray like a lost sheep Seek Your servant for I do not forget, No I do not forget what You command|KBC-203
english|Obedience||Obedience is the very best way To show that you believe. Doing exactly what the Lord commands, Doing it happily. Action is the key, Do it immediately And joy you will receive. Obedience is the very best way To show that you believe. O-B-E-D-I-E-N-C-E Obedience is the very best way To show that you believe.|KBC-204
english|Jubilee||Well He picked me up Turned me around Set my feet on higher ground. Glory, Hallelujah, Jubilee, Jubilee. Well He gives me peace He gives me joy This old world cannot destroy Glory, Hallelujah, Jubilee, Jubilee. All my life was filled with sorrow There was not a bright tomorrow. Days were dark as night; The light I could not see. Since He came to me I'm singing Such a melody is ringing Glory, Hallelujah, Jubilee. Well He picked me up Turned me around Set my feet on higher ground. Glory, Hallelujah, Jubilee, Jubilee.|KBC-205
english|Blessed Be Your Name||Blessed be Your name In the land that is plentiful Where Your streams of abundance flow Blessed be Your name Blessed be Your name When I'm found in the desert place Though I walk through the wilderness Blessed be Your name Every blessing You pour out I'll turn back to praise. When the darkness closes in, Lord Still I will say Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your name Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your glorious name Blessed be Your name When the sun's shining down on me When the world's all as it should be Blessed be Your name Blessed be Your name On the road marked with suffering Though there's pain in the offering Blessed be Your name Every blessing You pour out I'll turn back to praise When the darkness closes in, Lord Still I will say Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your name Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your glorious name You give and take away You give and take away My heart will choose to say Lord blessed be Your name Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your name Blessed be the name of the Lord Blessed be Your glorious name|KBC-206
english|In Christ Alone||In Christ alone my hope is found He is my light, my strength, my song This Cornerstone, this solid ground Firm through the fiercest drought and storm What heights of love, what depths of peace When fears are stilled, when strivings cease My Comforter, my All in All Here in the love of Christ I stand In Christ alone, who took on flesh Fullness of God in helpless Babe This gift of love and righteousness Scorned by the ones He came to save Til on that cross as Jesus died The wrath of God was satisfied For every sin on Him was laid Here in the death of Christ I live There in the ground His body lay Light of the world by darkness slain Then bursting forth in glorious day Up from the grave He rose again And as He stands in victory Sin's curse has lost its grip on me For I am His and He is mine Bought with the precious blood of Christ No guilt in life, no fear in death This is the power of Christ in me From life's first cry to final breath Jesus commands my destiny No power of hell, no scheme of man Can ever pluck me from His hand Til He returns or calls me home Here in the power of Christ I'll stand|KBC-207
english|The Bible Stands||The Bible stands like a rock undaunted Mid the raging storms of time Its pages burn with the truth eternal And they glow with a light sublime The Bible stands 'tho the hills may tumble It will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble I will plant my feet on its firm foundation For the Bible stands The Bible stands like a mountain tow'ring Far above the works of men Its truth by none ever was refuted And destroy it they never can The Bible stands 'tho the hills may tumble It will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble I will plant my feet on its firm foundation For the Bible stands The Bible stands and it will forever When the world has passed away By inspiration it has been given All its precepts I will obey The Bible stands 'tho the hills may tumble It will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble I will plant my feet on its firm foundation For the Bible stands The Bible stands ev'ry test we give it For its Author is divine By grace alone I expect to live it And to prove it and make it mine The Bible stands 'tho the hills may tumble It will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble I will plant my feet on its firm foundation For the Bible stands|KBC-208
english|Beneath the Cross of Jesus||Beneath the cross of Jesus I fain would take my stand The shadow of a mighty rock Within a weary land A home within the wilderness A rest upon the way From the burning of the noontide heat And the burden of the day O safe and happy shelter O refuge tried and sweet O trysting where heaven's love And heaven's justice meet As to our pilgrim patriarch That wond'rous dream was given So seems my Savior's cross to me A ladder up to heaven Upon the cross of Jesus Mine eye at times can see The very dying form of One Who suffered there for me And from my smitten heart with tears Two wonders I confess The wonder of His glorious love And my unworthiness I take the cross of Jesus For my abiding place I ask no other sunshine than The sunshine of His face Content to let the world go by To know no gain nor loss My sinful self my only shame My glory all the cross|KBC-209
english|When We Call Him Savior||He did not come to judge the world. He did not come to blame. He did not only come to seek. He also came to save. And when we call Him Savior, And when we call Him Savior, And when we call Him Savior then, We call Him by His name,|KBC-210
english|With Christ In The Vessel||With Christ in the vessel we can smile at the storm smile at the storm smile at the storm With Christ in the vessel we can smile at the storm As we go sailing home Sailing, sailing home Sailing, sailing home With Christ in the vessel we can smile at the storm As we go sailing home|KBC-211
english|Art Thou Weary, Art Thou Languid||Art thou weary, art thou languid, Art thou sore distressed? Come to Me," saith One, "and coming, Be at rest." Hath He marks to lead me to Him, If He be my Guide? In His feet and hands are wound prints And His side. Hath He diadem, as monarch, That His brow adorns? Yes, a crown in very surety, But of thorns. If I find Him, if I follow, What His guerdon here? Many a sorrow, many a labor, Many a tear. If I still hold closely to Him, What hath He at last? Sorrow vanquished, labor ended, Jordan passed. If I ask Him to receive me, Will He say me nay? Not till earth and not till Heaven Pass away. Finding, following, keeping, struggling, Is He sure to bless? Saints, apostles, prophets, martyrs, Answer, Yes!|KBC-212
english|I Timothy 3:16||He who was revealed in the flesh, Was vindicated in the Spirit Beheld by angels Proclaimed among the nations Believed on in the world. Was taken up in glory, Taken up in glory, Taken up in glory, Taken up. He who was revealed in the flesh, Was vindicated in the Spirit Beheld by angels Proclaimed among the nations Believed on in the world. He's coming back in glory, Coming back in glory, Coming back in glory, Coming back. He's coming back.|KBC-213
english|Revelation 12:11||They have overcome him By the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, They did not love their lives so much As to shrink from death.|KBC-214
english|Shepherd Of Eager Youth||Shepherd of eager youth, Guiding in love and truth Through devious ways; Christ our triumphant King, We come Thy Name to sing And here our children bring To join Thy praise. Thou art our holy Lord, The all-subduing Word, Healer of strife. Thou didst Thyself abase That from sin's deep disgrace Thou mightest save our race And give us life. Thou art the great High Priest; Thou hast prepared the feast Of heavenly love; None calls on Thee in vain, Thee who didst not disdain Help in Thy mortal pain, Help from above. Ever be Thou our Guide, Our Shepherd and our pride, Our Staff and Song; Jesus, Thou Christ of God, By Thy perennial Word Lead us where Thou hast trod, Make our faith strong. So now, and till we die, Sound we Thy praises high And joyful sing; Let all the holy throng Who to Thy church belong, Unite and swell the song To Christ our King.|KBC-215
english|Inside the Veil||Through Thy precious body broken Inside the veil Oh what words to sinners spoken Inside the veil Precious as the blood that bought us Perfect as the love that sought us Holy as the Lamb that brought us Inside the veil When we see Thy love unshaken Outside the camp Scorned by man by God forsaken Outside the camp Thy loved cross alone can charm us Shame need now no more alarm us Glad we follow nought can harm us Outside the camp Lamb of God through Thee we enter Inside the veil Cleansed by Thee we boldy venture Inside the veil Not a stain; a new creation; Ours is such a full salvation Lo we bow in adoration Inside the veil Unto Thee the homeless Stranger Outside the camp Forth we hasten fear no danger Outside the camp Thy reproach far richer treasure Than all Egypt's boasted pleasure Drawn by love that knows no measure Outside the camp Soon Thy saints shall all be gathered Inside the veil All at home no more be scattered Inside the veil Nought from Thee our hearts shall sever We shall see Thee, grieve Thee never Praise the Lamb shall sound forever Inside the veil|KBC-216
english|A Debtor to Mercy Alone||A debtor to mercy alone Of covenant mercy I sing Nor fear with God's righteousness on My person and offerings to bring The terrors of Law and of God With me can have nothing to do My Savior's obedience and blood Hide all my transgressions from view The work which His goodness began The arm of His strength will complete His promise is Yea and Amen And never was forfeited yet Things future nor things that are now Not all things below or above Can make Him His purpose forgo Or sever my soul from His love My name from the palms of His hands Eternity will not erase Impressed on His heart it remains In marks of indelible grace Yes I to the end shall endure As sure as the earnest is given More happy but not more secure The souls of the blessed in heav'n|KBC-217
english|Prince Of Peace||You are holy (You are holy) You are mighty (You are mighty) You are worthy (You are worthy) Worthy of praise (Worthy of praise) I will follow (I will follow) I will listen (I will listen) I will love You (I will love you) All of my days (All of my days) I will sing to (You're the Lord of Lords) And worship (You're the King of Kings) The King who (You are mighty God) Is worthy (Lord of everything) I will love Him (You're Emmanuel) Adore Him (You're the Great I am) I will bow down (You're the Prince of Peace) before Him (Who is the Lamb) I will sing to (You're the living God) And worship (You're my saving grace) The King who (You will reign forever) Is worthy (You are Ancient of Days) I will love Him (You are Alpha Omega) Adore Him (Beginning and End) I will bow down (You're my Savior Messiah) Before Him (Redeemer and friend) You're my Prince of Peace And I will live my life for You You are holy (You are holy) You are mighty (You are mighty) You are worthy (You are worthy) Worthy of praise (Worthy of praise) I will follow (I will follow) I will listen (I will listen) I will love You (I will love you) All of my days (All of my days) I will sing to (You're the Lord of Lords) And worship (You're the King of Kings) The King who (You are mighty God) Is worthy (Lord of everything) I will love Him (You're Emmanuel) Adore Him (You're the Great I am) I will bow down (You're the Prince of Peace) before Him (Who is the Lamb) I will sing to (You're the living God) And worship (You're my saving grace) The King who (You will reign forever) Is worthy (You are Ancient of Days) I will love Him (You are Alpha Omega) Adore Him (Beginning and End) I will bow down (You're my Savior Messiah) Before Him (Redeemer and friend) You're my Prince of Peace And I will live my life for You|KBC-218
english|My God is so BIG!||My God is so BIG! So strong and so mighty There's nothing my God cannot do. The mountains are His The rivers are His The stars are His handiwork too. My God is so BIG! So strong and so mighty There's nothing my God cannot do.|KBC-219
english|Peace Be Still||Master, the tempest is raging! The billows are tossing high! The sky is o'er-shadowed with blackness No shelter or help is nigh Carest Thou not that we perish, How canst Thou lie asleep When each moment so madly is threatning A grave in the angry deep The wind and the waves shall obey My will Peace... be still (Peace be still, peace be still) Whether the wrath of the storm-tossed sea Or demons or men or whatever it be No water can swallow the ship where lies The Master of ocean and earth and skies; They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace be still, Peace be still They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace, Peace be still Master, with anguish of spirit I bow in my grief today The depths of my sad heart are troubled O waken and save, I pray Torrents of sin and of anguish Sweep o'er my sinking soul And I perish, I perish dear Master O hasten and take control The wind and the waves shall obey My will Peace... be still (Peace be still, peace be still) Whether the wrath of the storm-tossed sea Or demons or men or whatever it be No water can swallow the ship where lies The Master of ocean and earth and skies; They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace be still, Peace be still They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace, Peace be still Master, the terror is over The elements sweetly rest Earth's sun in the calm lake is mirrored And heaven's within my breast Linger, O blessed Redeemer Leave me alone no more And with joy I shall make the blest harbor And rest on the blissful shore The wind and the waves shall obey My will Peace... be still (Peace be still, peace be still) Whether the wrath of the storm-tossed sea Or demons or men or whatever it be No water can swallow the ship where lies The Master of ocean and earth and skies; They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace be still, Peace be still They all shall sweetly obey My will, Peace, Peace be still|KBC-220
english|Sanctuary||Lord prepare me, to be a sanctuary Pure and holy, tried and true With thanksgiving, I'll be a living Sanctuary for you|KBC-221
english|John 10:27-28||My sheep hear My voice And I know them and they follow Me And I give unto them eternal life And they shall never perish Neither shall any man Pluck them out of my hand|KBC-222
english|Jesus is Our Shepherd||Jesus is Our Shepherd, Wiping every tear Folded in His bosom, What have we to fear? Only let us follow Wither He doth lead To the thirsty desert Or the dewy mead Jesus is Our Shepherd, Well we know his voice How its gentle whisper Makes our hearts rejoice Even when he chideth Tender is His tone None but He shall guide us We are His alone Jesus is Our Shepherd For the sheep He bled Every lamb is sprinkled With the blood He shed Then on each setteth His own secret sign They that have no spirit These saith He are mine Jesus is our shepherd Guarded by His arm Though the wolves may raven None can do us harm When we tread death's valley Dark with fearful gloom We will fear no evil Victors o'er the tomb|KBC-223
english|Take Time to be Holy||Take time to be holy Speak oft with thy Lord Abide in Him always And feed on His Word Make friends of God's children Help those who are weak Forgetting in nothing His blessing to seek Take time to be holy The world rushes on Spend much time in secret With Jesus alone By looking to Jesus Like Him thou shalt be Thy friends in thy conduct His likeness shall see Take time to be holy Let Him be thy Guide And run not before Him Whatever betide In joy or in sorrow Still follow thy Lord And, looking to Jesus Still trust in His Word Take time to be holy Be calm in thy soul Each tho't and each motive Beneath His control Thus led by His Spirit To fountains of love Thou soon shalt be fitted For service above|KBC-224
english|Yield Not to Temptation||Yield not to temptation For yielding is sin Each vict'ry will help you Some other to win Fight manfully onward Dark passions subdue Look ever to Jesus He'll carry you through Ask the Saviour to help you Comfort, strengthen, and keep you He is willing to aid you He will carry you through Shun evil companions Bad language disdain God's name hold in rev'rence Nor take it in vain Be thoughtful and earnest Kindhearted and true Look ever to Jesus He'll carry you through Ask the Saviour to help you Comfort, strengthen, and keep you He is willing to aid you He will carry you through To him that o'ercometh God giveth him a crown Thro' faith we shall conquer Tho' often cast down He, who is our Saviour Our strength will renew Look ever to Jesus He'll carry you through Ask the Saviour to help you Comfort, strengthen, and keep you He is willing to aid you He will carry you through|KBC-225
english|Prince of Peace (You are holy)||You are holy (You are holy) You are mighty (You are mighty) You are worthy (You are worthy) Worthy of praise (Worthy of praise) I will follow (I will follow) I will listen (I will listen) I will love You (I will love you) All of my days (All of my days) I will sing to You're the Lord of lords And worship You're the King of kings The King who You are mighty God Is worthy Lord of Everything I will Love Him You're Emmanuel Adore Him You're the Great I Am I will bow down You're the Prince of Peace before Him Who is the Lamb I will sing to You're the Living God And worship You're my Saving Grace The King who You will reign forever Is worthy You are Ancient of Days I will love Him You are Alpha Omega Adore Him Beginning and end I will bow down You're my Savior Messiah before Him Redeemer and Friend You're my Prince of Peace And I will live my life for You|KBC-226
english|Enough||All of You is more than enough for all of me For every thirst and every need You satisfy me with Your love And all I have in You is more than enough You are my supply My breath of life Still more awesome than I know You are my reward worth living for Still more awesome than I know All of You is more than enough for all of me For every thirst and every need You satisfy me with Your love And all I have in You is more than enough You're my sacrifice Of greatest price And still more awesome than I know You're my coming King You are everything And still more awesome than I know More than all I want More than all I need You are more than enough for me More than all I know` More than all I can say You are more than enough for me All of You is more than enough for all of me For every thirst and every need You satisfy me with Your love And all I have in You is more than enough|KBC-227
english|Revelation 19:11-16||And I saw heaven opened And behold a white horse And he that sat upon it was called faithful And True and in righteousness He judges and wages war He judges and wages war His eyes were a flame of fire And upon His head were many crowns And He had a name written on Him That no man knew accept Himself He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood And His name is called the Word of God And the armies which are in heaven Clothed in fine linen White and clean And the armies which are in heaven Clothed in fine linen White and clean Were following Him on white horses And from His mouth comes a sharp sword So that with it He may smite the nations He will rule them with a rod of iron And He treads the wine press of the fierce wrath Of God the Almighty And He's clothed with a robe dipped in blood And His name is called the Word of God And on His robe and on His thigh He has a name written King of kings And on His robe and on His thigh He has a name written Lord of lords|KBC-228
english|How Deep the Father's Love for Us||How deep the Father's love for us How vast beyond all measure That He should give His only Son To make a wretch His treasure How great the pain of searing loss The Father turns His face away As wounds which mar the chosen One Bring many sons to glory Behold the Man upon a cross My sin upon His shoulders Ashamed I hear my mocking voice Call out among the scoffers It was my sin that held Him there Until it was accomplished His dying breath has brought me life I know that it is finished I will not boast in anything No gifts, no power, no wisdom But I will boast in Jesus Christ His death and resurrection Why should I gain from His reward? I cannot give an answer But this I know with all my heart His wounds have paid my ransom|KBC-229
english|Philippians 4:8||Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, Whatever is right, whatever is pure, Whatever is lovely, Whatever is of good repute, Dwell on these things If there is any excellence And if anything worthy of praise, Dwell on, dwell on, Dwell on these things.|KBC-230
english|This World is Not My Home||This world is not my home I'm just a passing through My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue The angels beckon me from heaven's open door And I can't feel at home in this world anymore Oh Lord you know I have no friend like you If heaven's not my home then Lord what will I do The angels beckon me from heaven's open door And I can't feel at home in this world anymore Just over in Gloryland we'll live eternally the saints on every hand are shouting victory Their songs of sweetest praise drift back from heaven's shore And I can't feel at home in this world anymore Oh Lord you know I have no friend like you If heaven's not my home then Lord what will I do The angels beckon me from heaven's open door And I can't feel at home in this world anymore|KBC-231
english|How Great Is Our God||The splendor of a King, Clothed in majesty Let all the earth rejoice All the earth rejoice He wraps himself in Light, And darkness tries to hide And trembles at His voice Trembles at His voice How great is our God, sing with me How great is our God, and all will see How great, how great is our God Age to age He stands And time is in His hands Beginning and the end Beginning and the end The Godhead Three in One Father Spirit Son The Lion and the Lamb The Lion and the Lamb How great is our God, sing with me How great is our God, and all will see How great, how great is our God Then sings my soul my Savior God to Thee How great Thou art how great Thou art Then sings my soul my Savior God to Thee How great Thou art how great Thou art Name above all names Worthy of all praise My heart will sing How great is our God How great is our God, sing with me How great is our God, and all will see How great, how great is our God|KBC-232
english|My Savior, My God||I am not skilled to understand What God has willed, what God has planned I only know at His right hand Stands One Who is my Savior I take Him at His word indeed Christ died for sinners;" this I read And in my heart I find a need Of Him to be my Savior That He would leave His place on high And come for sinful man to die You count it strange, so once did I Before I knew my Savior My Savior loves, My Savior lives My Savior's always there for me My God He was, my God He is My God He's always gonna be My Savior loves, My Savior lives My Savior's always there for me My God He was, my God He is My God He's always gonna be And, Oh, that He fulfilled may see The travail of His soul in me And with His work contented be As I with my dear Savior Yes, living, dying, let me bring My strength, my solace from this spring; That He who lives to be my King Once died to be my Savior That He would leave His place on high And come for sinful man to die You count it strange, so once did I Before I knew my Savior My Savior loves, My Savior lives My Savior's always there for me My God He was, my God He is My God He's always gonna be My Savior loves, My Savior lives My Savior's always there for me My God He was, my God He is My God He's always gonna be|KBC-233
english|People Need the Lord||Everyday they pass me by I can see it in their eyes Empty people filled with care Headed who knows where On they go through private pain Living fear to fear Laughter hides the silent cries Only Jesus hears People need the Lord, People need the Lord At the end of broken dreams He's the open door People need the Lord, People need the Lord When will we realize That people need the Lord We are called to take his light to a world where wrong seems right What could be too great a cost for Sharing life with one who's lost Through His love our hearts can feel All the grief they bear. They must hear the words of life Only we can share People need the Lord, People need the Lord At the end of broken dreams He's the open door People need the Lord, People need the Lord When will we realize That we must give our lives For people need the Lord People need the Lord|KBC-234
english|Romans 11: 33-36||Oh the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable His judgments, how unknowable His ways Who knows the mind of our God, and who can bring counsel to Him? Who has given to God that God should repay? For from Him, through Him, to Him is everything To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen Oh the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable His judgments, how unknowable His ways Who knows the mind of our God, and who can bring counsel to Him? Who has given to God that God should repay? For from Him, through Him, to Him is everything To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen|KBC-235
english|Mark 12:30-31, I John 4:19||And you shall love the Lord Your God with all your heart And with all your soul And with all your mind And with all your strength ... And you shall love your neighbor as yourself We love because He first loved us We love because He first loved us|KBC-236
english|Did you feel the mountains tremble||Did you feel the mountains tremble? Did you hear the oceans roar? When the people rose to sing of Jesus Christ the risen one Did you feel the people tremble? Did you hear the singers roar? When the lost began to sing of Jesus Christ the saving one And we can see that God you're moving A mighty river through the nations And young and old will turn to Jesus Fling wide you heavenly gates Prepare the way of the risen Lord Open up the doors and let the music play Let the streets resound with singing Songs that bring your hope Songs that bring your joy Dancers who dance upon injustice Did you feel the darkness tremble? When all the saints join in one song And all the streams flow as one river To wash away our brokeness And here we see that God you're moving A time of Jubilee is coming When young and old return to Jesus Fling wide you heavenly gates Prepare the way of the risen Lord Open up the doors and let the music play Let the streets resound with singing Songs that bring your hope Songs that bring your joy Dancers who dance upon injustice|KBC-237
english|Wonderful, Merciful Savior||Wonderful, merciful Savior Precious Redeemer and Friend Who would have thought that a Lamb could Rescue the souls of men Oh, You rescue the souls of men Counselor, Comfortor, Keeper Spirit we long to embrace You offer hope when our hearts Have hopelessly lost the way Oh, we've hopelessly lost the way You are the One that we praise You are the One we adore You give the healing and grace Our hearts always hunger for Oh, our hearts always hunger for Almighty, infinite Father Faithfully loving His own Here in our weakness You'll find us Falling before Your throne Oh, we're falling before Your throne You are the One that we praise You are the One we adore You give the healing and grace Our hearts always hunger for Oh, our hearts always hunger for|KBC-238
english|I've Got the Joy||I've got the joy, joy, Joy, joy, down in my heart Down in my heart Down in my heart I've got the joy, joy, Joy, joy, down in my heart Down in my heart to stay And I'm so happy, So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart (down in my heart) And I'm so happy So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart I've got the Peace the passes understanding Down in my heart Down in my heart Down in my heart I've got the Peace the passes understanding Down in my heart Down in my heart to stay And I'm so happy, So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart (down in my heart) And I'm so happy So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart I've got the wonderful love of My blessed redeemer way down In the depths of my heart Way down in the Depths of my heart Way down in the Depths of my heart I've got the wonderful love of My blessed redeemer way down In the depths of my heart Way down in the Depths of my heart to stay And I'm so happy, So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart (down in my heart) And I'm so happy So very happy I have the love of Jesus In my heart|KBC-239
english|Romans 11: 33-36||Oh the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable His judgments, how unknowable His ways Who knows the mind of our God, and who can bring counsel to Him? Who has given to God that God should repay? For from Him, through Him, to Him is everything To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen Oh the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God How unsearchable His judgments, how unknowable His ways Who knows the mind of our God, and who can bring counsel to Him? Who has given to God that God should repay? For from Him, through Him, to Him is everything To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen To God be the glory forever and ever To God be the glory forever amen|KBC-240
english|I'm In The Lord's Army||I may never march in the infantry Ride in the cavalry Shoot the artillery I may never fly o'er the enemy But I'm in the Lord's army I'm in the Lord's army I'm in the Lord's army I may never march in the infantry Ride in the cavalry Shoot the artillery I may never fly o'er the enemy But I'm in the Lord's army|KBC-241
english|Thanks Be to God Who Gives Us The Victory||Thanks be to God Who gives us the victory Through our Lord Jesus Christ Thanks be to God Who gives us the victory Through our Lord Jesus Christ Victory, victory, Victory, victory! Thanks be to God Who gives us the victory Through our Lord Jesus Christ|KBC-242
english|The Countdown Song||Somewhere in outer space God has prepared a place For those who trust Him and obey Jesus will come again And though we don't know when The countdown's getting lower every day 10 and 9, 8 and 7 6 and 5 and 4 Call upon the Savior while you may 3 and 2 coming through the clouds In bright array The countdown's getting lower every day|KBC-243
english|Victory in Jesus||I heard an old, old story how a Savior came from glory How He gave His life on Calvary to save a wretch like me. I heard about His groaning of His precious blood's atoning. Then I repented of my sins and won the victory. O victory in Jesus, my Savior forever. He sought me and bought me with His redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew Him and all my love is due Him. He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood. I heard about His healing of His cleansing power revealing, how He made the lame to walk again and caused the blind to see. And then I cried, "Dear Jesus, come and heal my broken spirit." And somehow Jesus came and brought to me the victory. I heard about a mansion He has built for me in glory, and I heard about the streets of gold beyond the the crystal sea; about the angels singing and the old redemption story, and some sweet day I'll sing up there the song of victory.|KBC-244
english|Psalm 119:11||I have hidden your Word Hidden your Word Hidden your Word in my heart I have hidden your Word Hidden your Word Hidden your Word in my heart That I might not sin That I might not sin That I might not sin Against You I have hidden your Word Hidden your Word Hidden your Word in my heart I have hidden your Word Hidden your Word Hidden your Word in my heart|KBC-245
english|Ephesians 4:32||Be ye kind one to another Tender hearted, forgiving one another Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you Doo doo doodley doo|KBC-246
english|I Find Who I am In Your Grace||I am vulnerable, I am weak. If faith is standing then I'm trembling on my knees. I am selfish and untrusting I do what is right in my eyes as if I have no King. I'm the lost sheep that had gone astray. You sought me out brought me out and yet I still wander away. But You are strong. You are The Name. You're constant and holy yet still want to know me the same. You forgave and then You forgot. Redeemed from my sin, You will never abandon those bought. I praise who You are and I praise what You've done and I'll shout "Halleluia the battle is won!" and I find who I am in Your grace.|KBC-247
english|The Church is the People||The church is not a building The church is not a steeple The church is not a resting place The church is the people I am the church You are the church We are the church together All who follow Jesus All around the world Yes, we're the church together|KBC-248
english|I want God's Way to be My Way||I want God's Way to be my way As I travel here below There is no other highway That the child of God should know Though the road be dark and rough If He leads me that's enough I want God's way to be my way Every day|KBC-249
english|Outline of the Gospel of Acts||1. Touch Point 2. Who Christ Is 3. Death, Burial and Ressurection 4. Sin, Justice, and Judgement 5. commitment of Faith|KBC-250
english|Verses||Mondays Scripture Memory Verse 34 Opening his mouth, Peter said: I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality, 35 but in every nation the man who fears Him and does what is right is welcome to Him. 36 "The word which He sent to the sons of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ (He is Lord of all) Tuesday's Scripture Memory Verse 37 you yourselves know the thing which took place throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed. 38 "You know of Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him.|KBC-251
english|Kids of the Kingdom||Kids of the Kingdom That's what we are Kids of the Kingdom That's what we are We love Je-esus WHOO! We love the Lord! My name is ______, I love the Lord His/Her name is ______, He/She loves the Lord He/She loves Je-esus WHOO! He/She loves the Lord!|KBC-252
english|Psalm 19:1-6||The heavens are telling Of the glory of God; And their expanse is declaring The work of His hands. Day to day pours forth speech, And night to night Reveals knowledge. There is no speech, Nor are there words; Their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out Through all the earth, And their utterances To the end of the world. In them He has placed A tent for the sun, Which is as a bridegroom Coming out of his chamber; It rejoices as a strong man To run his course. Its rising is from One end of the heavens, And its circuit To the other end of them; And there is nothing Hidden from its heat.|KBC-253
english|Ephesians 6:10-12||Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of His might. Put on the full armor of God, so that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places.|KBC-254
english|Psalm 134||Behold, bless the LORD, All servants of the LORD, Who serve by night In the house of the LORD! Lift up your hands to the sanctuary And bless the LORD. And bless the LORD. May the LORD Bless you from Zion, He who made heaven and earth. May the LORD Bless you from Zion, He who made heaven and earth.|KBC-255
english|The Plague Song||First God sent, Plague number one, Turned the Nile into blood. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number two, Jumping frogs all over you. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number three, Swarms of gnats from head to knee. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number four, Filthy flies need we say more? All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number five, All the livestock up and died. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number six, Boils and sores to make you sick All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low. They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number seven, Hail and lighting down from heaven. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number eight, Locust came and they sure ate. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number nine, Total darkness all the time. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low They told Pharaoh "Let them Go!" Then God sent, Plague number ten, Pharaoh's son died so he gave in. All the people in Egypt were feeling pretty low Finally Pharaoh let them go.|KBC-256
english|Philippians 2:1-16||1 Therefore if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion, 2 make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. 3 Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves; 4 do not [merely] look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. 5 Have this attitude in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus, 6 who, although He existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, 7 but emptied Himself, taking the form of a bond-servant, [and] being made in the likeness of men. 8 Being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. 9 For this reason also, God highly exalted Him, and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name, 10 so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, 11 and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 12 So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling; 13 for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for [His] good pleasure. 14 Do all things without grumbling or disputing; 15 so that you will prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you appear as lights in the world, 16 holding fast the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory because I did not run in vain nor toil in vain.|KBC-257
english|Arky Arky (Rise and Shine)||Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Children of the Lord The Lord said to Noah: There's gonna be a floody, floody The Lord said to Noah: There's gonna be a floody, floody Get those children out of the muddy, muddy Children of the Lord So Noah He built him, he built him an arky, arky Noah He built him, he built him an arky, arky Built it out of gopher barky, barky Children of the Lord The animals, the animals, They came in by twosie, twosies The animals, the animals, They came in by twosie, twosies Elephants and kangaroosie, roosies Children of the Lord It rained and poured For forty daysie, daysies It rained and poured For forty daysie, daysies Nearly drove those animals crazy, crazies, Children of the Lord The sun came out and dried up the landy landy The sun came out and dried up the landy landy Everything was fine and dandy, dandy Children of the Lord Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Children of the Lord The animals they came off They came off by three-sies three-sies Animals they came off They came off by three-sies three-sies Grizzly bears and chimpanzee-sies zee-sies Children of the Lord Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Children of the Lord. That is the end of, The end of my story, story That is the end of, The end of my story, story Everything is hunky dory, dory Children of the Lord Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Children of the Lord|KBC-258
english|Hebrews 12:2-4||2 Fixing our eyes on Jesus the author and Perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. 3 For consider Him who has endured such hostility by sinners against Himself so that you may not grow weary and lose heart. 4 You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood in your striving against sin;|KBC-259
english|In the Kingdom||Saw the headlines just the other day Said the wall's comin' down Said the peace is just a breath away One world, one voice, on happy family Yeah, that's what the world believes I read my Bible just the other day Said the Kingdom's comin' down Jesus said the Kingdom's just a prayer away One Lord, one God, one faith eternally Yeah that's what the church believes We're alive, we are strong We're a nation, we belong Let us all stand together in the Kingdom No more darkness, no more night We are children of the light Let us all work together in the Kingdom Heard a newsman just the other day He said a war was comin' down He said destruction was just a breath away One world, one war, one awesome tragedy Yeah, that's what the world believes I heard a preacher just the other day He said God's glory's comin' down Just as the waters cover all the seas One King, one crown, one reign forevermore Yeah that's what we have and more We're alive, we are strong We're a nation, we belong Let us all stand together in the Kingdom No more darkness, no more night We are children of the light Let us all work together in the Kingdom|KBC-260
english|Romans 8: 1,2 new version||Therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death.|KBC-261
english|Romans 8:15||For you have not received A spirit of slavery Leading to fear again But you have received A spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out Abba Father Abba Father For you have not received A spirit of slavery Leading to fear again|KBC-262
english|I am the door||I am the door The words are but four By Me if any man enter in He shall be saved He shall be saved He shall be saved|KBC-263
english|O Happy Day||The greatest day in history Death is beaten You have rescued me Sing it out Jesus is alive The empty cross The empty grave Life eternal You have won the day Shout it out Jesus is alive He's alive Oh happy day, happy day You washed my sin away Oh happy day, happy day I'll never be the same Forever I am changed When I stand, in that place Free at last Meeting face to face I am Yours Jesus You are mine Endless joy, perfect peace Earthly pain finally will cease Celebrate Jesus is alive He's alive Oh happy day, happy day You washed my sin away Oh happy day, happy day I'll never be the same OHH NO Forever I am changed Oh what a glorious day What a glorious way That You have saved me Oh what a glorious day What a glorious name YEAHHH Oh happy day, happy day You washed my sin away Oh happy day, happy day I'll never be the same Forever I am changed|KBC-264
english|Romans 8:35 (NASB)||Who will separate us From the love of Christ? Who will separate us From the love of Christ? Will tribulation, or distress, or persecution, Or famine or nakedness, Or peril or sword, [From the love of our Lord.] Who will separate us From the love of Christ?|KBC-265
english|Hebrews 11:6||And without faith it is impossible Without faith it is impossible To please Him For he who comes to God Must believe that He is And that He is a Rewarder Oh, He is a Rewarder Of those who seek Him.|KBC-267
english|The Ballad of the Goodly Fere- a poem||Simon Zelotes speaking after the Crucifixion. Fere=Mate, Companion. Ha' we lost the goodliest fere o' all For the priests and the gallows tree? Aye lover he was of brawny men, O' ships and the open sea. When they came wi' a host to take Our Man His smile was good to see, First let these go!" quo' our Goodly Fere, Or I'll see ye damned," says he. Aye he sent us out through the crossed high spears And the scorn of his laugh rang free, Why took ye not me when I walked about Alone in the town?" says he. Oh we drank his "Hale" in the good red wine When we last made company, No capon priest was the Goodly Fere But a man o' men was he. I ha' seen him drive a hundred men Wi' a bundle o' cords swung free, That they took the high and holy house For their pawn and treasury. They'll no' get him a' in a book I think Though they write it cunningly; No mouse of the scrolls was the Goodly Fere But aye loved the open sea. If they think they ha' snared our Goodly Fere They are fools to the last degree. I'll go to the feast," quo' our Goodly Fere, Though I go to the gallows tree." Ye ha' seen me heal the lame and blind, And wake the dead," says he, Ye shall see one thing to master all: Tis how a brave man dies on the tree." A son of God was the Goodly Fere That bade us his brothers be. I ha' seen him cow a thousand men. I have seen him upon the tree. He cried no cry when they drave the nails And the blood gushed hot and free, The hounds of the crimson sky gave tongue But never a cry cried he. I ha' seen him cow a thousand men On the hills o' Galilee, They whined as he walked out calm between, Wi' his eyes like the grey o' the sea, Like the sea that brooks no voyaging With the winds unleashed and free, Like the sea that he cowed at Genseret Wi' twey words spoke' suddently. A master of men was the Goodly Fere, A mate of the wind and sea, If they think they ha' slain our Goodly Fere They are fools eternally. I ha' seen him eat o' the honey-comb Sin' they nailed him to the tree.|KBC-268
english|Ten Commandments||1 Don't worship other gods 2 no graven images 3 don't take God's name in vain 4 the Sabbath is for rest 5 respect your family 6 don't ever ever kill 7 be faithful to your spouse 8 don't steal Don't lie Don't wish for others things|KBC-269
english|Take Me In||Take me past the outer courts Into the Holy Place Past the brazen altar Lord I want to see your face Pass me by the crowds of people And the Priests who sing your praise I hunger and thirst for your righteousness But it's only found in one place Take me into the holy of holies Take me in by the blood of the lamb Take me into the holy of holies Take the coal, touch my lips, here I am|KBC-270
english|Romans 6:23||Romans 6:23 For the wages of sin is death For the wages of sin is death For the wages of sin is death For the wages of sin is death But... the gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord But the gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord|KBC-271
english|Mighty to Save||Everyone needs compassion A love that's never failing Let mercy fall on me Everyone needs forgiveness The kindness of a Savior The hope of nations Savior He can move the mountains My God is mighty to save He is mighty to save Forever Author of Salvation He rose & conquered the grave Jesus conquered the grave So take me as you find me all my fears and failures Fill my life again I give my life to follow everything I believe in Now I surrender Savior He can move the mountains My God is mighty to save He is mighty to save Forever Author of Salvation He rose & conquered the grave Jesus conquered the grave Shine your light and let the whole world see we're singing for the glory of the risen King Jesus Shine your light and let the whole world see we're singing for the glory of the risen King Savior He can move the mountains My God is mighty to save He is mighty to save Forever Author of Salvation He rose & conquered the grave Jesus conquered the grave|KBC-272
english|One Day||One day when heaven was filled with His praises, One day when sin was as black as could be, Jesus came forth to be born of a virgin Dwelt among men, my example is He! Living, He loved me; dying, He saved me; Buried, He carried my sins far away; Rising, He justified freely forever: One day He's comingO glorious day! One day they led Him up Calvary's mountain, One day they nailed Him to die on the tree; Suffering anguish, despised and rejected; Bearing our sins, my Redeemer is He. Living, He loved me; dying, He saved me; Buried, He carried my sins far away; Rising, He justified freely forever: One day He's comingO glorious day! One day they left Him alone in the garden, One day He rested, from suffering free; Angels came down o'er His tomb to keep vigil; Hope of the hopeless, my Savior is He. Living, He loved me; dying, He saved me; Buried, He carried my sins far away; Rising, He justified freely forever: One day He's comingO glorious day! One day the grave could conceal Him no longer, One day the stone rolled away from the door; Then He arose, over death He had conquered; Now is ascended, my Lord evermore. Living, He loved me; dying, He saved me; Buried, He carried my sins far away; Rising, He justified freely forever: One day He's comingO glorious day! One day the trumpet will sound for His coming, One day the skies with His glory will shine; Wonderful day, my beloved ones bringing; Glorious Savior, this Jesus is mine!|KBC-273
english|John 15:4-5||Remain in Me, and I will remain in you. Just as the branch Cannot bear fruit by itself Unless it remains in the vine So neither can you unless you Remain in Me, remain in Me I am the vine And you are the branches The one who remains in me And I in him bears much fruit Because apart from me You can accomplish nothing Accomplish nothing|KBC-274
english|In the Night||I am weary with the pain of Jacob's wrestling In the darkness with the Fear, in the darkness with the Fear But he met the morning wounded with a blessing So in the night my hope lives on When Elisha woke surrounded by the forces Of the enemies of God, the enemies of God He saw the hills aflame with angels on their horses So in the night my hope lives on Oh in the night, oh in the night Oh in the night my hope lives on I see the slave that toils beneath the yoke unyielding And I can hear the captive groan, hear the captive groan For some hand to stay the whip his foe is wielding Still in the night my hope lives on I see the armies of the enemy approaching And the people driven, trembling, to the shore But a doorway through the waters now is opening So in the night my hope lives on Oh in the night, oh in the night Oh in the night my hope lives on Like the son who thought he'd gone beyond forgiveness, Too ashamed to lift his head-- but if he could lift his head He would see his father running from a distance In the night my hope lives on I can see the crowd of men retreating As he stands between the woman and their stones And if mercy in his holy heart is beating Then in the night my hope lives on Oh in the night, oh in the night Oh in the night my hope lives on I remember how they scorned the son of Mary He was gentle as a lamb, gentle as a lamb He was beaten, he was crucified, and buried And in the night, my hope was gone But the rulers of this earth could not control Him No they did not take his life-- He laid it down all the chains of death could never hope to hold Him So in the night my hope lives on I can see the Son of Man descending And the sword He swings is brighter than the dawn And the gates of Hell will never stand against Him So in the night my hope lives on Oh in the night, oh in the night Oh in the night my hope lives on|KBC-275
english|Jesus Messiah||He became sin Who knew no sin That we might become His Righteousness He humbled himself and carried the cross Love so amazing Love so amazing Jesus Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The rescue for sinners The ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all His body the bread His blood the wine Broken and poured out all for love The whole earth trembled And the veil was torn Love so amazing Love so amazing, yeah Jesus Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The rescue for sinners The ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all All our hope is in You All our hope is in You All the glory to You, God The light of the world Jesus Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The rescue for sinners The ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all|KBC-276
english|Philippians 2:5-11||Have this attitude in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus, Who, although He existed in the form of God, Did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, But emptied Himself, Taking the form of a bond-servant, and being made in the likeness of men. Jesus Christ is Lord, Jesus Christ is Lord, Being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. For this reason also, God highly exalted Him, and bestowed on Him the name which is above every name, So that at the name of Jesus EVERY KNEE WILL BOW, Of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.|KBC-277
english|Everlasting God||Strength will rise as we wait upon the Lord We will wait upon the Lord We will wait upon the Lord Our God, You reign forever Our hope, our Strong Deliverer You are the everlasting God The everlasting God You do not faint You won't grow weary You're the defender of the weak You comfort those in need You lift us up On wings like eagles|KBC-278
english|I Will Serve You||I will serve You Because I love You You have given life to me I was nothing Until you found me You have given life to me Heartaches, broken pieces Ruined lives are why you died on Calvary Your touch, is what I long for You have given life to me|KBC-279
english|Joel 2:11-13||The Lord utters His voice before His army; Surely His camp is very great, For strong is he who carries out His word. The day of the Lord is indeed great and very awesome, And who can endure it? Yet even now, declares the Lord, Return to Me with all your heart, And with fasting, weeping and mourning; Yet even now, declares the Lord, Return to Me with all your heart, And rend your heart and not your garments." Now return to the Lord your God, For He is gracious and compassionate, Slow to anger, abounding in lovingkindness And relenting of evil.|KBC-280
english|Calling Out Your Name||Well the moon moved past Nebraska And spilled laughter on them cold Dakota Hills And angels danced on Jacob's stairs Yeah, they danced on Jacob's stairs There is this silence in the Badlands And over Kansas the whole universe was stilled By the whisper of a prayer The whisper of a prayer And the single hawk bursts into flight And in the east the whole horizon is in flames I feel thunder in the sky I see the sky about to rain And I hear the prairies calling out Your name I can feel the earth tremble Beneath the rumbling of the buffalo hooves And the fury in the pheasant's wings And there's fury in a pheasant's wings It tells me the Lord is in His temple And there is still a faith That can make the mountains move And a love that can make the heavens ring And I've seen love make heaven ring Where the sacred rivers meet Beneath the shadow of the Keeper of the plains I feel thunder in the sky I see the sky about to rain And I hear the prairies calling out Your name From the place where morning gathers You can look sometimes forever 'til you see What time may never know What time may never know How the Lord takes by its corners this old world And shakes us forward and shakes us free To run wild with the hope To run wild with the hope The hope that this thirst will not last long That it will soon drown in the song Not sung in vain And I feel thunder in the sky I see the sky about to rain And I hear the prairies calling out Your name The hope that this thirst will not last long That it will soon drown in the song Not sung in vain And I feel thunder in the sky I see the sky about to rain And with the prairies I am calling out Your name|KBC-281
english|Revelation Song||Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. Holy, holy is He. Sing a new song to Him who sits on Heaven's Mercy Seat. Holy, Holy, Holy is The Lord, God Almighty. Who was and is and is to come. With all creation I sing, Praise to The King of Kings, You are my everything. And I will adore You." Clothed in rainbows, of living color. Flashes of lightning, rolls of thunder. Blessing and honor, strength and glory and power be, To You, the only wise King. Filled with wonder, awestruck wonder, At the mention of Your Name. Jesus, Your Name is power, breath and living water. Such a marvelous mystery.|KBC-282
english|In The Light||I keep trying to find a life On my own, apart from you I am the king of excuses I've got one for every selfish thing I do What's going on inside of me? I despise my own behavior This only serves to confirm my suspicions That I'm still a man in need of a savior I wanna be in the light As you are in the light I wanna shine like the stars in the heavens Oh, lord be my light and be my salvation Cause all I want is to be in the light All I want is to be in the light The disease of self runs through my blood It's a cancer fatal to my soul Every attempt on my behalf has failed To bring this sickness under control Tell me, what's going on inside of me? I despise my own behavior This only serves to confirm my suspicions That I'm still a man in need of a savior I wanna be in the light As you are in the light I wanna shine like the stars in the heavens Oh, lord be my light and be my salvation Cause all I want is to be in the light All I want is to be in the light Honesty becomes me [there's nothing left to lose] The secrets that did run me [in your presence are defused] Pride has no position [and riches have no worth] The fame that once did cover me [has been sentenced to this earth] Has been sentenced to this earth Tell me, what's going on inside of me? I despise my own behavior This only serves to confirm my suspicions That I'm still a man in need of a savior I wanna be in the light As you are in the light I wanna shine like the stars in the heavens Oh, lord be my light and be my salvation Cause all I want is to be in the light All I want is to be in the light I wanna be in the light As you are in the light I wanna shine like the stars in the heavens Oh, lord be my light and be my salvation Cause all I want is to be in the light All I want is to be in the light|KBC-283
english|Christ Is Risen||Let no one caught in sin remain Inside the lie of inward shame We fix our eyes upon the cross And run to him who showed great love And bled for us Freely you bled, for us Christ is risen from the dead Trampling over death by death Come awake, come awake! Come and rise up from the grave! Christ is risen from the dead We are one with him again Come awake, come awake! Come and rise up from the grave! Beneath the weight of all our sin You bow to none but heavens will No scheme of hell , no scoffer's crown No burden great can hold you down In strength you reign Forever let your church proclaim Oh death! Where is your sting? Oh hell ! Where is your victory? Oh Church! Come stand in the light! The glory of God has defeated the night! Oh death! Where is your sting? Oh hell! Where is your victory? Oh Church! Come stand in the light! Our God is not dead, he's alive! he's alive!|KBC-284
english|Proverbs 3:33-34||The curse of the Lord is On the house of the wicked, But He blesses the home of the just. Surely He scorns the scornful, But gives grace to the humble.|KBC-285
english|Holy Hands||Not what my hands have done Can save my guilty soul Not what my toiling flesh has borne Can make my spirit whole Not what I feel or do Can give me peace with God Not all my prayers and sighs and tears Can bear my awful load These guilty hands are raised, Filthy rags are all I bring And I have come to hide beneath Your wings These holy hands are raised, Washed in the fountain of Your grace And now I wear Your righteousness. Thy work alone O Christ Can ease this weight of sin Thy blood alone O Lamb of God Can give me peace within Thy love to me O God Not mine O Lord to thee Can rid me of this dark unrest And set my spirit free Thy grace alone O God To me can pardon speak Thy power alone O Lamb of God Can this sore bondage break No other work save Thine, No other blood will do No strength save that which is divine Can bear me safely through I praise the God of grace I trust His truth and might He calls me His I call Him mine My God, my joy, my light Tis He who saveth me And freely pardon gives I love because He loveth me I live because He lives|KBC-286
english|All The Poor and Powerless||All the poor and powerless And all the lost and lonely All the thieves will come confess And know that You are holy Will know that You are holy And all will sing out Hallelujah And we will cry out Hallelujah All the hearts that are content And all who feel unworthy And all who hurt with nothing left Will know that You are holy will know that You are holy And all will sing out Hallelujah And we will cry out Hallelujah Shout it Go on and scream it From the mountains Go on and tell it to the masses That He is God We will sing out Hallelujah And we will cry out Hallelujah we will sing out Hallelujah And we will cry out Hallelujah Shout it Go on and scream it From the mountains Go on and tell it to the masses That He is God|KBC-287
english|Footprints||In the deepest sleep One night I dreamed That on the beach I walked God was by my side each step And quietly we talked Then on the sky my life was flashed And visions all serene Two sets of footprints in the sand Were there in every scene My precious child God said to me Each time your life has pain I'll know Whenever you're to broken to walk I'll be there to carry you Then I noticed in some times Of suffering, pain and strife A single set of footprints At the worst times of my life Oh God you said you'd stay by me In good times and in bad Why then did you leave me Each time my life was sad? My precious child God answered Each time your life had pain I knew The single set of footprints Were the times I carried you The single set of footprints Were the times I carried you I'll always be there to carry you|KBC-288
english|10,000 Reasons||Bless the Lord, O my soul O my soul Worship His holy name Sing like never before O my soul I'll worship Your holy name The sun comes up, it's a new day dawning It's time to sing Your song again Whatever may pass, and whatever lies before me Let me be singing when the evening comes Bless the Lord, O my soul O my soul Worship His holy name Sing like never before O my soul I'll worship Your holy name You're rich in love, and You're slow to anger Your name is great, and Your heart is kind For all Your goodness I will keep on singing Ten thousand reasons for my heart to find Bless the Lord, O my soul O my soul Worship His holy name Sing like never before O my soul I'll worship Your holy name And on that day when my strength is failing The end draws near and my time has come Still my soul will sing Your praise unending Ten thousand years and then forevermore Bless the Lord, O my soul O my soul Worship His holy name Sing like never before O my soul I'll worship Your holy name|KBC-289
english|Manifesto||We believe in the one true God We believe in Father Spirit Son We believe that good has won And all of the people of God sang along Amen Amen, yeah We are free He died and lives again We will be a people freed from sin We'll be free, a kingdom with no end And all of the people of God sang along Amen Amen, yeah Amen Amen, yeah Yeah Our father who art in Heaven, hallowed by thy name Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done On earth as it is in heaven. Give us our daily bread and forgive our trespasses As we forgive those who have trespassed against us Lord lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil For Thine is the kingdom, power and the glory forever Were singing Amen Amen, yeah Amen Amen, yeah Yeah.|KBC-290
english|Mighty River||There is a beautiful river Winding from Your heavenly throne With peace and strength for the weary Filling the saints with Your love You are a mighty river A reservoir for the thirsty soul My God and my deliverer You are the only one who makes me whole There is a bountiful harvest For the one who stays the course With faith and steadfast devotion A crown awaits for those whose hope endures When fear dims the light of my vision When sin steals my will and resolve Your mercy I will remember That a river of Your blood ran down the cross|KBC-291
english|He made the Stars to Shine||He made the stars to shine He made the rolling sea He made the mountains high And He made me And that is why I love Him For me he bled and died The Lord of all creation Became the crucified.|KBC-292
english|Children of God||Praise to the Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ Our God and our King, to Him we will sing In His great mercy, He has given us life Now we can be called the children of God Great is the Love that the Father has given us He has delivered us, He has delivered us Children of God, sing your song and rejoice For the love that He has given us all Children of God, by the blood of His Son We have been redeemed and we can be called Children of God Children of God A mystery is revealed to the universe The Father above has proven His love Now we are free from the judgment that we deserve And so we are called the children of God We are the saints We are the children Weve been redeemed Weve been forgiven We are the sons and the daughters of our God Children of God, sing your song and rejoice For the love that He has given us all Children of God, by the blood of His Son We have been redeemed and we can be called Children of God Children of God We are the saints We are the children Weve been redeemed Weve been forgiven We are the sons and the daughters of our God|KBC-293
english|Thy mercy my God||Thy mercy my God is the theme of my song The joy of my heart and the boast of my tongue Thy free grace alone from the first to the last Hath won my affection and bound my soul fast Without Thy sweet mercy, I could not live here Sin would reduce me to utter despair But through Thy free goodness, my spirit's revived And He that first made me still keeps me alive Thy mercy is more than a match for my heart Which wonders to feel it's own hardness depart Dissolved by Thy goodness, I fall to the ground And weep for the praise of the mercy I've found Great father of mercies, Thy goodness I own In the covenant love, Thy crucified son All praise to the spirit, whose whisper divine Seals mercy and pardon and righteousness mine All praise to the spirit, whose whisper divine Seals mercy and pardon and righteousness mine|KBC-294
english|Grace to You and Peace||Grace to You and Peace From God our Father And the Lord Jesus Christ Grace to You and Peace Grace to You and Peace|KBC-295
english|The Story of His Life||Written on my heart is a story that I can't explain Broken and beaten, but I still need love just the same I read about this Jesus, Supposed to be the son of God Seems he came to save me then he was rolled behind a stone. I've been wrong wrong tonight Jesus came to make my heart right The way I've been clinging to sin, holding on so tight. The Story of his life, he gives us hope, he cried all night to bring us home and he was chosen. The story of his life, he came to die, he gives his love until he's broke inside. The story of his life Written on my heart is a story that I can't explain. Leave my heart open but it stays right here in it's cage. I know that in the morning now I'll see him on the cross up on a hill. Although he was broken, my heart is unchanged still. I've been wrong wrong tonight Jesus came to make my heart right. The way that he's been holding me so tight, he's everything to me. The Story of his life, he gives us hope, he cried all night to bring us home and he was chosen. The story of his life, he came to die, he gives his love until he's broke inside. The story of his life And I've been waiting for this time to come around, but Jesus running after you takes all my heart. The Story of his life, he gives us hope, he cried all night to bring us home and he was chosen. The story of his life, he came to die, he gives his love until he's broke inside. The story of his life|KBC-296
english|Amazing Grace||Amazing grace, how sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost but now am found Was blind but now I see Yippee-kai-yay, yippee-kai-yo That saved a wretch like me T'was grace that taught my heart to fear And grace my fears relieved How precious did that grace appear The hour I first believed Yippee-kai-yay, yippee-kai-yo That saved a wretch like me Through many dangers toils and snares I have already come Tis grace hath brought me safe thus far And grace will lead me home Yippee-kai-yay, yippee-kai-yo That saved a wretch like me When we've been there ten thousand years Bright shining as the sun We've no less days to sing God's grace Then when we first begun Yippee-kai-yay, yippee-kai-yo That saved a wretch like me|KBC-297
english|Malachi 4:2-3||But for you who fear my name The sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings; and you shall go forth again and skip about like calves coming from their stalls at last You shall be my very own On the day that I cause you to be my special home I shall spare you as a man has compassion on his son who does the best he can But for you who fear my name The sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings; and you shall go forth again and skip about like calves coming from their stalls at last You shall be my very own On the day that I cause you to be my special home I shall spare you as a man has compassion on his son who does the best he can But for you who fear my name The sun of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings; and you shall go forth again and skip about like calves coming from their stalls at last|KBC-298
english|Acts 1:8, Isaiah 11:9b,||You will receive power When the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be My witnesses in Jerusalem, and all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of the earth. For the earth will be filled With the knowledge of the glory of the Lord As the waters cover the sea Follow me and I will make you Fishers of men|KBC-299
english|What Have I Done||What Have I done Lord Jesus To deserve Your endless love? What have I done Lord Jesus To be worthy of Your grace? What have I done Lord Jesus To be standing here with You? What have I done Lord Jesus To be worthy of you? For I am nothing yet You love me I am no one yet You care You thought of me when you died What have I done to deserve this love? And I lay down my will to do Yours until My life, I give henceforth to live for you alone For I am nothing yet you love me I am no one yet you care You thought of me when you died What have I done to deserve this love? What have I done Lord Jesus To deserve Your endless love? What have I done Lord Jesus To be worthy of Your grace? What have I done Lord Jesus To be standing here with You? What have I done Lord Jesus To be worthy of You? You made me worthy of You You made me worthy of You|KBC-300
english|Come, my soul, thou must be waking||Come, my soul, thou must be waking, Now is breaking O'er the earth another day: Come, to Him Who made this splendor See thou render All thy feeble strength can pay. Gladly hail the sun returning: Ready burning Be the incense of Thy powers: For the night is safely ended; God hath tended With His care thy helpless hours. Pray that He may prosper ever Each endeavor, When thine aim is good and true; But that He may ever thwart thee, And convert thee, When thou evil wouldst pursue. Think that He thy ways beholdeth, He unfoldeth Every fault that lurks within; He the hidden shame glossed over Can discover, And discern each deed of sin. Mayest thou on life's last morrow. Free from sorrow, Pass away in slumbers sweet; And, released from death's dark sadness, Rise in gladness, That far brighter Sun to greet. Only God's free gift abuse not, Light refuse not, But His Spirit's voice obey; Thou with Him shall dwell, beholding Light enfolding All things in unclouded day. Glory, honor, exaltation, Adoration, Be to the eternal One: To the Father, Son, and Spirit laud and merit, While unending ages run.|KBC-301
english|Forever||The moon and stars they wept The morning sun was dead The Savior of the world was fallen His body on the cross His blood poured out for us The weight of every curse upon him One final breath he gave As heaven looked away The son of God was laid in darkness A battle in the grave The war on death was waged The power of hell forever broken The ground began to shake The stone was rolled away his perfect love could not be overcome Now death where is your sting? Our resurrected King Has rendered you defeated Forever he is glorified Forever he is lifted high Forever he is risen He is alive, He is alive! The ground began to shake The stone was rolled away his perfect love could not be overcome Now death where is your sting? Our resurrected King Has rendered you defeated Forever he is glorified Forever he is lifted high Forever he is risen He is alive, He is alive! We sing hallelujah We sing hallelujah We sing hallelujah The Lamb has overcome Forever he is glorified Forever he is lifted high Forever he is risen He is alive, He is alive!|KBC-302
english|I Stand Amazed||I stand amazed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene, and wonder how he could love me, a sinner, condemned, unclean. How marvelous! How wonderful! And my song shall ever be: How marvelous! How wonderful is my Savior's love for me! He took my sins and my sorrows, he made them his very own; he bore the burden to Calvary, and suffered and died alone. How marvelous! How wonderful! And my song shall ever be: How marvelous! How wonderful is my Savior's love for me! When with the ransomed in glory his face I at last shall see, twill be my joy through the ages to sing of his love for me. How marvelous! How wonderful! And my song shall ever be: How marvelous! How wonderful is my Savior's love for me!|KBC-303
english|Boldly I Approach||By grace alone somehow I stand Where even angels fear to tread Invited by redeeming love Before the throne of God above He pulls me close with nail-scarred hands Into His everlasting arms When condemnation grips my heart And Satan tempts me to despair I hear the voice that scatters fear The Great I Am the Lord is here Oh praise the One who fights for me And shields my soul eternally Boldly I approach Your throne Blameless now I'm running home By Your blood I come Welcomed as Your own Into the arms of majesty Behold the bright and risen Son More beauty than this world has known I'm face to face with Love Himself His perfect spotless righteousness A thousand years, a thousand tongues Are not enough to sing His praise Boldly I approach Your throne Blameless now I'm running home By Your blood I come Welcomed as Your own Into the arms of majesty This is the art of celebration Knowing we're free from condemnation Oh praise the One, praise the One Who made an end to all my sin Boldly I approach Your throne Blameless now I'm running home By Your blood I come Welcomed as Your own Into the arms of majesty|KBC-304
english|We Are Not Worthy of You||The earth is Yours, Lord and all it contains, the world and all who dwell in it The horizon bending the heavens unending Oh, who could stand before Your throne? The earth is Yours, Lord and all it contains, the world and all who dwell in it The horizon bending the heavens unending Oh, who could stand before Your throne? We are not worthy of You We are not worthy of You Guilty hearts, unclean hands washed in the blood of the Holy Creator We are not worthy of You The earth is Yours, Lord and all it contains, the world and all who dwell in it The horizon bending the heavens unending Oh, who could stand before Your throne? We are not worthy of You We are not worthy of You Guilty hearts, unclean hands washed in the blood of the Holy Creator We are not worthy of You But I sing... Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is Jesus who was slain I sing... Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is Jesus who was slain Blessing, honor, glory, power be Your's forevermore Blessing, honor, glory, power be Your's forevermore Riches, wisdom, might, dominion, men of every tribe and nation; my heart, life, and praise be unto You I sing... Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is Jesus who was slain I sing... Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is the Lamb Worthy worthy is Jesus who was slain|KBC-305
english|God Be My Everything/Be Thou My Vision||Be Thou my vision, O Lord of my heart Nought be all else to me, Save that Thou art Thou my best thought, By day or by night Waking or sleeping, Thy presence my light. Be Thou my wisdom, And Thou my true Word I ever with Thee And Thou with me, Lord, Thou my great Father, I Thy true son Thou in me dwelling, And I with Thee one. Riches I heed not Nor man's empty praise Thou mine inheritance, Now and always, Thou and Thou only, First in my heart High King of Heaven, My treasure Thou art. O, God be my everything Be my delight Be Jesus My Glory My soul satisfied High King of Heaven, My victory won, May I reach Heaven's joys, O bright Heaven's Sun! Heart of my own heart, Whatever befall, Still be my vision, O Ruler of all. O, God be my everything Be my delight Be Jesus My Glory My soul satisfied|KBC-306
english|In Tenderness||In tenderness He sought me, Weary and sick with sin. And on His shoulders brought me Back to His fold again. While angels in His presence sang, Until the courts of heaven rang! O-o-oh the love that sought me! O-o-oh the blood that bought me! Oh the grace that brought me to the fold of God- Grace that brought me to the fold of God! He died for me while I was sinning; Needy and poor and blind. He whispered to assure me, I've found thee; thou art Mine." I never heard a sweeter voice, It made my aching heart rejoice! Upon His grace I'll daily ponder, And sing anew His praise. With all adoring wonder, His blessings I retrace. It seems as if eternal days, Are far too short to sing His praise.|KBC-307
english|PSALM 8||O Lord, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth, Who have displayed Your splendor above the heavens! From the mouth of infants and nursing babes You have established Strength Because of Your adversaries, To make the enemy and the revengeful cease. When I consider Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, The moon and the stars, which You have ordained; What is man that You take thought of him, And the son of man that You care for him? Yet You have made him a little lower than God, And You crown him with glory and majesty! You make him to rule over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet, All sheep and oxen, And also the beasts of the field, The birds of the heavens and the fish of the sea, Whatever passes through the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth!|KBC-308
english|John 1:1||In the beginning was the word And the Word was with God And the Word was God John 1:1|KBC-309
english|Hallelujah, What a Savior! (Cohen)||Man of Sorrows! what a name for the Son of God who came ruined sinners to reclaim! Hallelujah! Bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned He stood; sealed my pardon with His blood; Hallelujah! Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah, what a Savior! Guilty, vile and helpless we; Spotless Lamb of God was He; Full atonement" can it be. Hallelujah! Lifted up was He to die, It is finished," was His cry; now in heaven exalted high; Hallelujah! Man of Sorrows! what a name for the Son of God who came ruined sinners to reclaim! Hallelujah! When He comes, our glorious King, all His ransomed home to bring, then anew this song we'll sing: Hallelujah!|KBC-310
english|Don't Look at the Giants||We spied out the land I'm sure we can win Josh-u-a knows it too We just need to go in The other ten guys Feel like grasshoppers there But I'm gonna give Those giants a scare! Canaan is fantastic, You should see the landscapes! Our God's provision Comes in all sizes and shapes. Have you forgotten All our narrow escapes? Don't look at the giants, Look at the grapes! Remember the plagues And the firstborn all dead And how the Egyptians Were the ones full of dread God has led us this far Through the sea and the sand He'll give it to us, Why can't you understand (that)|KBC-311
english|John 3:16||For God so loved the world, That he gave his only begotten Son, That whosoever believeth In him should not perish, But have everlasting life.|KBC-312
english|2 Corinthians 5:21||God made Him Who knew no sin To be sin for us To be sin for us That we might be The righteousness of God in Him|KBC-313
english|Romans 8:28||And we know that All things work Together for good To them that love God, To them who are the called according to his purpose. Romans 8:28|KBC-314
english|Untold millions||Untold millions are still untold Untold millions are still outside the fold Who will tell them of Jesus' love And the heavenly mansions awaiting above Jesus died on Calvary to save each one from sin Now he calls to you and to me To go and bring them in For many untold millions are still untold Untold millions are outside the fold Who will tell them of Jesus' love And the heavenly mansions awaiting above|KBC-315
english|Step By Step, Day By Day||Step By Step Day By Day I will walk with Jesus Hand in hand all the way I will walk with Him When I falter He'll be there And I'm safe within His care So, Step by step, day by day I will walk with him|KBC-316
english|Romans 3:23||For all have sinned and come short For all have sinned and come short For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.|KBC-317
english|Do you not know||Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, The Creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired or weary, his understanding no one can fathom. He gives strength to the weary Even youths grow tired and weary, and young men stumble and fall; but all those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not grow weary, They will soar on wings like eagles; they will walk and not be faint.|KBC-318
english|Romans 3:10||As it is written There is none righteous No not one|KBC-319
english|Acts 4:12||Neither is there salvation In any other For there is none other name Under heaven Given among men Whereby we must be saved|KBC-320
english|2 Timothy 4:1-5||I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by His appearing and His kingdom: preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with great patience and instruction. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths. But you, be sober in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.|KBC-321
english|Today's the Day||Today's the day Tonight's the night To trust the Lord Jesus Christ Today's the day Tonight's the night To trust the Lord With all your might Halelujah, Halelujah Ha-le-lu-jah Halelujah, Halelujah Ha-le-lu-jah|KBC-322
english|Back to Bethel||The stars that shone on Abraham, testified your grace The sand on the shore I walk, testify the same The path I'm on is rough at times, full of rocks and snares But it's the path that leads me home, and you're the God that leads me there Back to Bethel, to the land of my fathers The inheritance of Abraham, and his sons and daughters Back to Bethel, bury the idols Dwell in the land, the place we were meant to settle I'm not the first one to walk these paths, not the first to climb these hills I'm not the first one to cross the Jordan, not the first to drink from these wells I'm not the first one to praise you, or to follow where you lead, you're the one who led my fathers, the same way you lead me Back to Bethel, to the land of my fathers The inheritance of Abraham, and his sons and daughters Back to Bethel, bury the idols Dwell in the land, the place we were meant to settle I've tried to force your hand, I've tried to steal your grace, I've wandered far from home, and worshipped other things You found me in the dark, when I was all alone, showed me those heavenly stairs, and brought me safely home|KBC-323
english|Isaiah 55:1-2||Ho! Everyone that thirsteth Come ye to the water, He that hath no money Come ye buy and eat. Wherefore do you spend money For that which is not bread And your labor On that which satisfieth not? Hallelujah|KBC-324
english|Psalm 1:1-3||How blessed is the man who Does not walk In the counsel of the wicked, Nor stand in the path of sinners, Nor sit in the seat of scoffers! But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he meditates day and night. And in His law he meditates day and night. He will be like a tree firmly planted by streams of water, Which yields its fruit in its season And its leaf does not wither; And in whatever he does, he prospers.|KBC-325
english|All Day Song||Love Him in the morning, When you see the sun arising, Love Him in the evening Cause He took you through the day, And in the in-between time When you feel the pressure coming, Remember that He loves you And He promises to stay. When you think you've got to worry, Cause it seems the thing to do, Remember He aint in a hurry, He's always got time for You|KBC-326
english|Lift high the name of Jesus||Lift high the name of Jesus, Of Jesus our King. Make known the power of His grace, The beauty of His peace. Remember how His mercy reached And we cried out to Him. He lifted us to solid ground, To freedom from our sin. Oh sing my soul, And tell all Hes done, Till the earth and heavens are filled with His glory! Lift high the name of Jesus, Of Jesus our Lord. His power in us is greater than, Is greater than this world. To share the reason for our hope, To serve with love and grace, That all who see Him shine through us Might bring the Father praise. Lift high the name of Jesus, Of Jesus our Light. No other name on earth can save, Can raise a soul to life. He opens up our eyes to see The harvest He has grown. We labor in His fields of grace As He leads sinners home.|KBC-327
english|John 10:10-11, 14||I am the Good Shepherd The Good Shepherd lays Down His life For the sheep The thief comes only To steal and kill and destroy I came that they may have life And have it abundantly I am the Good Shepherd And I know My own And My own know me|KBC-328
english|Have Patience||Have patience Have patience Don't be in such a hurry When you get impatient You only start to worry Remember, remember That God is patient too And think of all the times That other have to wait on you|KBC-329
english|Oh How Good It Is||Oh how good it is When the family of God Dwells together in spirit In faith and unity. Where the bonds of peace, Of acceptance and love Are the fruit of His presence Here among us. So with one voice Well sing to the Lord And with one heart Well live out His word Till the whole earth sees The Redeemer has come For He dwells in the Presence of His people. Oh how good it is On this journey we share To rejoice with the happy And weep with those who mourn. For the weak find strength The afflicted find grace When we offer the blessing Of belonging. Oh how good it is To embrace His command To prefer one another Forgive as He forgives. When we live as one We all share in the love Of the Son with the Father And the Spirit.|KBC-330
english|Peter and John Went to Pray||Peter and John went to pray. They met a lame man on the way He asked for alms and held out his palms, And this is what Peter did say Silver and gold have I none, But such as I have give I thee, In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. He went walking and leaping and praising God, Walking and leaping and praising God, In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk.|KBC-331
english|Not My Will But Yours Be Done||When I feel crushed beneath a load, That seems to weigh a ton, Not my will but Yours be done. Though Your Spirit's full of strength In my flesh I've got none Not my will but Yours be done. When the task You've given me Is anything but fun Not my will but Yours be done. May I rise up with resolve Ready, Lord, to do it May I care more about Your will Than whether I live through it Make me like Your firstborn son Not my will but Yours be done.|KBC-332
english|Drawn To The Cross Which You Have Blessed||Drawn to the Cross which You have blessed, With healing gifts for souls distressed, To find in You my Life, my Rest, Christ crucified, I come. Stained with the sins which I have wrought, In word and deed and secret thought; For pardon which Your Blood has bought, Christ crucified, I come. Weary of selfishness and pride, False pleasures gone, vain hopes denied, Deep in Your wounds my shame to hide, Christ crucified, I come. You know all my griefs and fears, Your grace abused, my misspent years; Yet now to You for cleansing tears, Christ crucified, I come. I would not, if I could conceal The ills which only You can heal; So to the Cross, where sinners kneel, Christ crucified, I come. Wash me, and take away each stain, Let nothing of my sin remain; For cleansing, though it be through pain, Christ crucified, I come. To share with You Your life divine, Your very likeness to be mine, Since You have made my nature Thine, Christ crucified, I come. To be what You would have me be, Accepted, sanctified in Thee, Through what Your grace shall work in me, Christ crucified, I come.|KBC-333
english|Hebrews 11:1||Now faith is Confidence in What we hope for And assurance about What we do not see This is what the ancients Were commended for|KBC-334
english|Hebrews 12:1-2||Therefore since we are surrounded By such a great cloud of witnesses Let us throw off everything that hinders And the sin that so easily entagles And let us run with perserverence The race marked out for us Fixing our eyes on Jesus The pioneer and perfecter of faith For the joy set before Him He endured the cross Scorning its shame And sat down at the right hand Of the throne of God|KBC-335
english|Ephesians 1:3-10||Ephesians 1:3, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the Beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.|KBC-336
english|Is He Worthy (Andrew Peterson)||Do you feel the world is broken? (We do) Do you feel the shadows deepen? (We do) But do you know that all the dark won't stop the light from getting through? (We do) Do you wish that you could see it all made new? (We do) Is all creation groaning? (It is) Is a new creation coming? (It is) Is the glory of the Lord to be the light within our midst? (It is) Is it good that we remind ourselves of this? (It is) Is anyone worthy? Is anyone whole? Is anyone able to break the seal and open the scroll? The Lion of Judah who conquered the grave He is David's root and the Lamb who died to ransom the slave Is He worthy? Is He worthy? Of all blessing and honor and glory Is He worthy of this? He is Does the Father truly love us? (He does) Does the Spirit move among us? (He does) And does Jesus, our Messiah hold forever those He loves? (He does) Does our God intend to dwell again with us? (He does) Is anyone worthy? Is anyone whole? Is anyone able to break the seal and open the scroll? The Lion of Judah who conquered the grave He is David's root and the Lamb who died to ransom the slave From every people and tribe Every nation and tongue He has made us a kingdom and priests to God to reign with the Son Is He worthy? Is He worthy? Of all blessing and honor and glory? Is He worthy? Is He worthy? Is He worthy of this? He is! Is He worthy? Is He worthy? He is! He is!|KBC-337
english|Above Yourselves||Shoob it up shoob it up Do nothing out of selfish ambition Or vain conceit Rather in humility Value others above yourselves Above yourselves (you first, you first) Above yourselves (no, please after you) Value others (I don't mind, you go ahead) Above yourselves (No, really, it's my pleasure after you) Shoob it up Shoob it up (every day) Shoob it up (every single day) Shoob it up Do nothing out of selfish ambition Or vain conceit Rather in humility Value others above yourselves Above yourselves (you first, you first) Above yourselves (no, please after you) Value others (I don't mind, you go ahead) Above yourselves (No, really, it's my pleasure after you) Above yourselves (you first, you first) Above yourselves (be my guest, friend, please I insist) Value others (it's no problem I think you were here first anyway) Above yourselves (In the spirit of Paul's letter to the Philippians please let me serve you in this simple manner) Why don't you take the biggest cookie on the plate? I'll take the smaller one. Shoob it up, shoob it up, Shoob it up (Always shoob it up) Shoob it up Shooby-dooby-dooby-dooby-dooby-do-do|KBC-338
english|One Step More||One step more, one step more Give me faith for one step more One step more my Savior, one step more, Only one step more When the day is weary and the nights are dark and dreary Never fear, He is near Dark and drear may be the way I hear the Savior say Follow Me, follow Me|KBC-339
english|Colossians 1:18||He is also head Of the body, the church And He is the beginning The firstborn from the dead So that He Himself Will come to have First place In everything.|KBC-340
english|Psalm 32:8-9||I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will guide you with My eye. Do not be like the horse or like the mule, Which have no understanding, Which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, Else they will not come near you.|KBC-341
english|Jesus is the Mighty, Mighty King||Jesus is the Mighty, Mighty King Jesus is the Mighty, Mighty King God made Him the Boss of everything, 'cause Jesus is the Mighty, Mighty King ________________ is not the boss, uh-uh ... Who is? Jesus is the boss, 'cause ...|KBC-342
english|Romans 1:16||Romans 1:16, for I Am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, For it is the power of God Unto salvation to everyone That believeth, to the Jew first And also to the Greek.|KBC-343
english|His Mercy Is More||What love could remember No wrongs we have done Omniscient, all knowing, He counts not their sum Thrown into a sea without bottom or shore Our sins they are many, His mercy is more What patience would wait As we constantly roam What Father, so tender, is calling us home He welcomes the weakest, the vilest, the poor Our sins they are many, His mercy is more Praise the Lord, His mercy is more Stronger than darkness, new every morn Our sins they are many, His mercy is more What riches of kindness He lavished on us His blood was the payment, His life was the cost We stood 'neath a debt we could never afford Our sins they are many, His mercy is more|KBC-344
english|He Knows, He Cares, He Rules||The one that sees the end from the begining, The one that spoke the universe into being Knows the hairs on our head, our worries and fears. Knows the ones He has saved, His children from the years He knows, He cares, He rules He has sought us like precious jewels So when you're drowning in a sea of hurt Expect the Lord to work While we were yet sinners Christ died for us Helpless in a fallen world, condemned to brokenness The joy of salvation, redeemed to live again A Father that's benevolent, and a Son that's conquered sin He knows, He cares, He rules He has sought us like precious jewels So when you're drowning in a sea of hurt Expect the Lord to work Former of the world, the mountains, and the seas Creator of the stars, constellations, and galaxies Victor over sin, the cross, the grave, and hell It's not just salvation that He gives, it's purpose as well He knows, He cares, He rules He has sought us like precious jewels So when you're drowning in a sea of hurt Expect the Lord to work|KBC-345
english|Oceans||You call me out upon the waters The great unknown where feet may fail And there I find You in the mystery In oceans deep My faith will stand And I will call upon Your name And keep my eyes above the waves When oceans rise, my soul will rest in Your embrace For I am Yours and You are mine Your grace abounds in deepest waters Your sovereign hand Will be my guide Where feet may fail and fear surrounds me You've never failed and You won't start now So I will call upon Your name And keep my eyes above the waves When oceans rise, my soul will rest in Your embrace For I am Yours and You are mine Spirit lead me where my trust is without borders Let me walk upon the waters Wherever You would call me Take me deeper than my feet could ever wander And my faith will be made stronger In the presence of my Savior Spirit lead me where my trust is without borders Let me walk upon the waters Wherever You would call me Take me deeper than my feet could ever wander And my faith will be made stronger In the presence of my Savior Spirit lead me where my trust is without borders Let me walk upon the waters Wherever You would call me Take me deeper than my feet could ever wander And my faith will be made stronger In the presence of my Savior I will call upon Your name Keep my eyes above the waves My soul will rest in Your embrace I am Yours and You are mine|KBC-374
english|I Need thee Every Hour||I need The every hour Most gracious Lord; No tender voice like Thine Can peace afford I need thee, O I need Thee; Every hour I need Thee O bless me now my Savior I come to Thee I need The every hour Stay Thou near by Temptations lose their power when Thou art nigh I need thee, O I need Thee; Every hour I need Thee O bless me now my Savior I come to Thee I need Thee every hour In joy or pain come quickly and abide or life is vain I need thee, O I need Thee; Every hour I need Thee O bless me now my Savior I come to Thee I need Thee every hour, Most Holy One O make me Thine indeed Thou blessed Son I need thee, O I need Thee; Every hour I need Thee O bless me now my Savior I come to Thee|KBC-376
english|Trust in You||Letting go of every single dream, I lay each one down at your feet, Every moment of my wandering, Never changes what you see. I've tried to win this war I confess, My hands are weary I need your rest, Mighty warrior, king of the fight, No matter what I face you're by my side! When you don't move the mountains I'm needing you to move, When you don't part the waters I wish I could walk through, When you don't give the answers As I cry out to you, I will trust, I will trust, I will trust in you. Truth is you know what tomorrow brings, There's not a day ahead you have not seen, So in all things be my life and breath, I want what you want lord and nothing less. When you don't move the mountains I'm needing you to move, When you don't part the waters I wish I could walk through, When you don't give the answers As I cry out to you, I will trust, I will trust, I will trust in you! You are my strength and comfort, You are my steady hand, You are my firm foundation, The rock on which I stand, Your ways are always higher, Your plans are always good, There's not a place where I'll go You've not already stood! When you don't move the mountains I'm needing you to move, When you don't part the waters I wish I could walk through, When you don't give the answers As I cry out to you, I will trust, I will trust, I will trust in you. I will trust, I will trust, I will trust in you. I will trust, I will trust, I will trust in you.|KBC-393
english|Beautiful, Beautiful||Don't know how it is you looked at me and saw the person that I could be Awakening my heart Breaking throughout the dark Suddenly your grace Like sunlight burning at midnight making my life something so Beautiful, Beautiful Mercy reaching to save me All I need you are so Beautiful, Beautiful Now there's a joy inside I can't contain But even perfect days can end in rain And though it's pouring down I'll see you through clouds Shining on my face Like sunlight burning at midnight making my life something so Beautiful, Beautiful Mercy reaching to save me All I need you are so Beautiful, Beautiful I have come undone But I have just begun Changing by your grace Like sunlight burning at midnight making my life something so Beautiful, Beautiful Mercy reaching to save me All I need you are so Beautiful, Beautiful Like sunlight burning at midnight making my life something so Beautiful, Beautiful Mercy reaching to save me All I need you are so Beautiful, Beautiful|KBC-400
english|This I Believe (Creed)||Our Father everlasting The all creating One God Almighty Through Your Holy Spirit Conceiving Christ the Son Jesus our Saviour I believe in God our Father I believe in Christ the Son I believe in the Holy Spirit Our God is three in one I believe in the resurrection That we will rise again For I believe In the name of Jesus Our Judge and our Defender Suffered and crucified Forgiveness is in You Descended into darkness You rose in glorious life Forever seated high I believe in God our Father I believe in Christ the Son I believe in the Holy Spirit Our God is three in one I believe in the resurrection That we will rise again For I believe In the name of Jesus I believe in You I believe You rose again I believe that Jesus Christ is Lord Yes, I believe in You I believe You rose again I believe that Jesus Christ is Lord I believe in life eternal I believe in the virgin birth I believe in the saints communion And in Your holy Church I believe in the resurrection When Jesus comes again For I believe In the name of Jesus I believe in God our Father I believe in Christ the Son I believe in the Holy Spirit Our God is three in one I believe in the resurrection That we will rise again For I believe In the name of Jesus Oh that they had such a heart in them, That they would fear Me, And keep all My commandments always, That it may be well With them and their sons forever! For the eyes of the Lord Move to and fro Throughout the earth So that He may strongly Support the one Whose heart is completely His.[new song]|KBC-401
english|Deuteronomy 30:16-20||Love the Lord your God And walk in His ways Keep His commandments His statutes and His judgements I call heaven and earth To be my witnesses That I have placed before life and death, the blessing and the curse But if you turn away And choose to disobey And worship other things You won't be kept from perishing I call heaven and earth To be my witnesses That I have placed before life and death, the blessing and the curse So choose life, choose life, choose life that you may live (repeat) You and your descendants by loving the Lord you God By obeying His voice and holding fast to Him For this is your life and the length of your days That you may dwell in the land the Lord has promised That you may dwell in the land the Lord has blessed I call heaven and earth To be my witnesses That I have placed before life and death, the blessing and the curse|KBC-420
english|KBC Rules Songs||<b><i>Rule Number One</b></i> <br> Rule number one, rule number one, And I say just be nice. Little children, it's been a long cold lonely winter. Little children, it seems a year since we've been here. Rule number one, rule number one, And I say just be nice. Little children, the smiles returning to the faces. Little children, they're coming here from many places. Rule number one, rule number one, And I say just be nice. One, one, one, just be nice. One, one, one, just be nice. One, one, one, just be nice. One, one, one, just be nice. One, one, one, just be nice! Little children, we love because we've first been loved. Little children, they'll know we're Christians by our love. Rule number one, rule number one, And I say just be nice. Rule number one, rule number one. Just be nice, just be nice. <b><i>Rule Number Two</b></i> <br> I'm sittin' here all alone, Thinkin' what I might have done. I thought that I couldn't miss, But it ended up like this. Don't be a fool, it's the second rule. It ain't just the staff I love, It's the whole camp that I'm thinkin' of! Look at me no hands! I do what the crowd demands! I've done this a million times! Only ends up bad sometimes! Don't be a fool, it's the second rule. It ain't just the staff I love, It's the whole camp that I'm thinkin' of! <b><i>Rule Number Three</b></i> <br> Obey God and you'll be sitting On top of the world! Don't be afraid to try the greatest life around. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> Not everybody tries it once. Those who don't just have to put it down. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> One reads His word, turns around, obeys, And, baby, that's all there is, And you will be amazed! You gotta obey God and you're sittin' On top of the world! Not just a fad cause it's been going on so long. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> All the saints going strong. They said it couldn't last too long. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> They'll eat their words with a fork and spoon, And watch us live our lives, And sing another tune, As we obey we'll be Sittin' on top of the world! Obey God and you're Sittin' on top of the world. So take a lesson from a life-long Christian boy. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> Get yourself a Holy Word, But don't you treat it like a toy. <i>(Obey God, obey God)</i> Just get away from the other stuff, And follow all it says, it will be enough, And when you Obey God you'll be sittin' On top of the world Obey God and you're Sittin' on top of the world. <b><i>Rule Number Four</b></i> <br> You can serve, you can play, Having the time of your life, ooh, ooooh. When they come, be unseen. Please don't make a scene. Camp's for campers, we all know. Serving them, it's the way to go. Let them hear the gospel, this is the thing. Help them to find the King. Tell them how the Savior died, And to lift His name on high. He was resurrected as it was prophesied. So when you get the chance, In every circumstance... That's who the camp is for, Campers get the floor, oh forevermore! Number four. When they're seen, then flee the scene, oh yeah! You can serve, you can play, Having the time of your life, ooh, ooooh. When they come, be unseen. Please don't make a scene. As an example focus on, How you show Christ whereupon. Loving one another, that's what we'll do. In every circumstance, And when you get the chance... That's who the camp is for, Campers get the floor, oh forevermore! Number four. When they're seen, then flee the scene, oh yeah! You can serve, you can play, Having the time of your life, ooh, ooooh. When they come, be unseen. Please don't make a scene. Give them priority Give them priority Give them priority Give them priority|KBC-500
english|Eye of the Storm||When the solid ground is falling out from underneath my feet, Between the black skies and my red eyes, I can barely see And when Im feeling like Ive let down By my friends and my family, I can hear the rain reminding me In the eye of the storm, You remain in control In the middle of the war, You guard my soul You alone are the anchor, when my sails are torn Your love surrounds me, in the eye of the storm When my hopes and dreams are far from me, And Im running out of faith I see the future I pictured slowly fade away And when the tears of pain and heartache Are pouring down my face I find my peace in Jesus' name In the eye of the storm, You remain in control In the middle of the war, You guard my soul You alone are the anchor, when my sails are torn Your love surrounds me, in the eye of the storm [Super Special Awesome Guitar Solo] When they let me go and I just dont know how Im gonna make ends meet I did my best now Id scared to Death that we might lose everything And when a sickness takes my child away, And theres nothing I can do My only hope is to trust You, I trust you Lord In the eye of the storm, You remain in control In the middle of the war, You guard my soul You alone are the anchor, when my sails are torn Your love surrounds me, in the eye of the storm In the eye of the storm, You remain in control In the middle of the war, You guard my soul You alone are the anchor, when my sails are torn Your love surrounds me, in the eye of the storm|KBC-526
english|Memory passage||Psalm 127 Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it Unless the lord guards the city, The watchman keeps awake in vain It is vain for you to rise up early, To retire late, To eat the bread of painful labors For He gives to His beloved [even in his] sleep. Behold, children are a gift of the Lord The fruit of the womb is a reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, So are the children of one's youth. How blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them; They will not be ashamed When they speak with their enemies in the gate.|KBC-550
english|Hawkinlandia||Tune is Hawkinlandia Oh, Hawkinland, our beloved country, Where yellow rules our future as our past Bananas, lemons, sunshine, rubber duckies Even our sky glows with a yellow cast Each happy face, the juice at lunch on Monday, Corn on the cob, and every caution sign, Come visit us where every days a fun day At every meal on scrambled eggs we dine. Were Hawkinland, please gather round to hear us Our farms are large, and all our cows say Moo And though its said that even pirates fear us, Well tell that you were yellow through and through Oh, Hawkinland, where streams flow mellow-yellow We oft unite to climb our Mt. Dew Will you defect, tell team-mates Cheerio And join with us, be yellow thru and thru?|KBC-551
english|SIXTEEN GALLONS||I was lured into buying this SUV with incentives & gimmicks & gadgetry Now it's parked in my driveway, I walk everywhere I was Macho Man but now I'm a square Just 16 gallons, and what do you get, another day older and deeper in debt, St. Peter don't you call me cause I can't go - I owe my soul to AMOCO. Got a credit card, but maxed it out, got another one, but that went south, I owe CITI bank, and UMB US bank has my liberty. Just 16 gallons, and what do you get, another day older and deeper in debt, St. Peter don't you call me cause I can't go - I owe my soul to AMOCO. With $2.00 beans and $3.00 bread $4.00 gas and $5.00 spread $6.00 chuck and $7.00 steak $8.00 lettuce - Hey, give me a break! Just 16 gallons, and what do you get, another day older and deeper in debt, St. Peter don't you call me cause I can't go - I owe my soul to AMOCO.|KBC-552
english|Before the Throne of God Above||Before the throne of God above I have a strong a perfect plea A great High Priest whose name is Love Who ever lives and pleads for me My name is graven on His hands My name is written on His heart I know that while in heaven He stands No tongue can bid me thence depart No tongue can bid me thence depart When Satan tempts me to despair And tells me of the guilt within Upward I look and see Him there Who made an end to all my sin Because the sinless Savior died My sinful soul is counted free For God the Just is satisfied To look on Him and pardon me To look on Him and pardon me Behold Him there! the Risen Lamb My perfect spotless righteousness The great unchangeable I Am The King of glory and of grace One with Himself I cannot die My soul is purchased by His blood My life is hid with Christ on high With Christ my Savior and my God With Christ my Savior and my God|KBC-555
english|Cricket Song||In the dark seclusion Of this little crevice I've been waiting all day long Now that all is silent And the stars are shinin' I finally get to sing my song Hallelujah x4 I will praise my maker With all my being I'm not ever gonna stop Because my time is short here I can't just lay around Waiting for the other shoe to drop Hallelujah x4 We share a great Creator But you've been given So much more than I If you've accepted Jesus As your Lord and Savior You'll go to meet Him when you die Hallelujah x3 Hallelu|KBC-559
english|Memory Verses (2 Corinthians 5:10-21)||10For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. 11Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest to God; and I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences. 12We are not again commending ourselves to you butare giving you an occasion to be proud of us, so that you will havean answer for those who take pride in appearance and not in heart. 13For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God; if we are of sound mind, it is for you. 14For the love of Christ controls us, having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all died; 15and He died for all, so that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for Him who died and rose again on their behalf. 16Therefore from now on we recognize no one according to the flesh; even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we knowHimin this way no longer. 17Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature; the old things passed away; behold, new things have come. 18Now allthese things are from God, who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, 19namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and He has committed to us the word of reconciliation. 20Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us; we beg you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. 21He made Him who knew no sinto be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in Him.|KBC-567
english|Memory Verses (John 14:1-27)||1Do not let your heart be troubled; believe in God, believe also in me 2In My Father's house are many dwelling places; if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you. 3If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself, That where I am, there you may be also 4"And you know the way where I am going" 5 Thomas said to him Lord, We do not know where you are going, how do we know the way? 6 Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life; no one comes to the Father but through Me 7 If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; from now on you know Him, and have seen Him. 8 Philip said to Him Lord show us the Father and it is enough for us 9 Jesus said to him Have I been so long with you, and yet you have not come to know me, Phillip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; how can you say, Show us the Father? 10 Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on My own initiative, but the Father abiding in Me does His works. 11 Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me; otherwise believe because of the works themselves. 12 Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do, he will do also; and greater works than these he will do; because I go to the Father 13 Whatever you ask in My name, that will I do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 14 If you ask Me anything in My name, I will do it. 15 If you love me, you will keep My commandments 16 I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Helper, that He may be with you forever; 17that is the Spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive, because it does not see Him or know Him, but you know Him because He abides with you and will be in you. 18I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you. 19After a little while the world will no longer see Me, but you will see Me; because I live, you will live also. 20In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you. 21He who has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will disclose Myself to him. 22Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, Lord what then has happened that You are going to disclose Yourself to us and not to the world? 23Jesus answered and said to him, If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word; and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and make Our abode with him. 24He who does not love me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine, but the Father's who sent Me. 25These things I have spoken to you while abiding with you. 26But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. 27Peace I leave with you: My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful.|KBC-568
english|Lead Me to the Cross||Savior I come quiet my soul Remember Redemtions Hill where Your blood was spilled A For my ransom Everything I once held dear, I count it all as lost Lead me to the Cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross You were as I tempted and tried Human Bm A G The Word became flesh bore my sin and death D A Now You're Risen Everything I once held dear I count it all as lost Lead me to the Cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to You O Lead me Lead me to the cross To Your Heart To Your Heart Lead me to Your Heart Lead me to Your Heart|KBC-7
english|Battle Hymn of the Republic||Mine eyes have seen the glory Of the coming of the Lord; He is trampling out the vintage Where the grapes of wrath are stored; He hath loosed the fateful lightning Of His terrible swift sword; His truth is marching on. Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! Glory! Glory! Hallelujah! His truth is marching on.|KBC-700
english|America the Beautiful||O beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain, For purple mountain majesties Above the fruited plain! America! America! God shed His grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea! O beautiful for pilgrim feet Whose stern impassioned stress A thoroughfare of freedom beat Across the wilderness! America! America! God mend thine every flaw, Confirm thy soul in self-control, Thy liberty in law! O beautiful for patriot dream That sees beyond the years Thine alabaster cities gleam Undimmed by human tears! America! America! God shed His grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea! O beautiful for pilgrims feet, Whose stem impassioned stress A thoroughfare for freedom beat Across the wilderness! America! America! God shed his grace on thee Till paths be wrought through wilds of thought By pilgrim foot and knee!|KBC-701
english|Star-Spangled Banner||Oh, say can you see, By the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, Through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, Were so gallantly streaming? And the rockets' red glare, Whe bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there. O say, does that star-spangled Banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave? Oh! thus be it ever, When freemen shall stand Between their loved homes Wnd the war's desolation! Blest with victory and peace, May the heaven-rescued land Praise the Power that hath made And preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, For our cause it is just, And this be our motto: In God is our trust." And the star-spangled banner Forever shall wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave!|KBC-702
english|My Country, 'Tis of Thee,||My country, 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I sing; Land where my fathers died, Land of the pilgrims' pride, From every mountainside, Let freedom ring! Our fathers' God, to Thee, Author of liberty, To Thee we sing; Long may our land be bright With freedom's holy light; Protect us by Thy might, Great God, our King.|KBC-703
english|God Bless America||God Bless America. Land that I love Stand beside her, and guide her Through the night with the light from above, From the mountains, to the prairies, To the oceans, white with foam God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home sweet home.|KBC-704
english|Billions of Dead Things||The Bible talks about Noah and the Ark, And the world-wide flood where the world was judged. If there really was a world-wide flood, what would the evidence be? Billions of dead things, Buried in rock layers, Laid down by water, All over the earth. Well, there really was a world-wide flood, Just look at the stony curse. With billions of dead things, Buried in rock layers, Laid down by water, All over the earth. The Bible talks about a world-wide flood. Could the fossils be the proof we see? If there really was a world-wide flood What would the evidence be? Billions of dead things, Buried in rock layers, Laid down by water, All over the earth. Well, there really was a world-wide flood, Just look at the stony curse. With billions of dead things, Buried in rock layers, Laid down by water, All over the earth.|KBC-705
english|God Bless The U.S.A.||If tomorrow all the things were gone I've worked for all my life And I had to start again With just my family by my side I'd thank my God above To be living here today Cause the flag still stands for freedom And they can't take that away hey I'm proud to be an American Where at least I know I'm free And I won't forget the men who died Who gave that right to me And I gladly stand up next to you And defend her still today Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land God bless the USA From the lakes of Minnesota To the hills of Tennessee Across the plains of Texas From sea to shining sea From Detroit down to Houston And New York to L.A. There's pride in every American heart And it's time we stand and say I'm proud to be an American Where at least I know I'm free And I won't forget the men who died Who gave that right to me And I gladly stand up next to you And defend her still today Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land God bless the USA|KBC-706
english|Paul and Barnabas||Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel, Paul and Barnabas preached the Word; Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel and people came and heard, oh yeah! people came and heard. Across the ocean to Cyprus Island they ventured out on their own, They blinded Elymas and saved Sergius Paulus and went on their way in the Lord. Just go and pray and preach the gospel to any person, Go and pray and tell somebody today. John Mark went with them across the water to cure the sin of the heart, But lacking conviction and homesick and sorry he went back to where he did start. Just go and pray and preach the gospel to any person, Go and pray and tell somebody today. Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel, Paul and Barnabas preached the Word; Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel and people came and heard, oh yeah! people came and heard. Way out to Asia they spread the gospel and churches sprang up from ev'rywhere, Paul is the leader and Barnabas teacher, in ev'rything willing to share. Just go and pray and preach the gospel to any person, Go and pray and tell somebody today. Back home in Israel they greet the brethren but troubled answers are all they hear, The Jewish believers are binding their brothers in ritual law and in fear. The Jewish believers are soundly refuted by Paul and his friends then and there. Just go and pray and preach the gospel to any person, Go and pray and tell somebody today. Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel, Paul and Barnabas preached the Word; Paul and Barnabas preached the gospel and people came and heard, Oh yeah! People came and heard. Now Paul is anxious to take the gospel to ev'ryone in the dark, It's time to revisit the churches in Asia, But Barnabas wanted John Mark, Paul and Silas now preach the gospel, Paul and Silas now preach the Word; Paul and Silas now preach the gospel and people came and heard, Oh yeah! People came and heard. Just go and pray and preach the gospel to any person, Go and pray and tell somebody today!|KBC-707
english|Matthew's Begats||Abraham had Isaac Isaac he had Jacob Jacob he had Judah and his kin Then Perez and Zerah came from Judah's woman Tamar Perez he brought Hezron up and then came... Aram then Amminadab then Nahshon who was then the dad of Salmon who with Rahab fathered Boaz Ruth she married Boaz who had Obed who had Jesse Jesse he had David who we know as king David he had Solomon by dead Uriah's wife Solomon, well you all know him, he had good old Rehoboam Follow by Abijah who had Asa Asa had Jehoshaphat had Jehoram had Uzziah who had Jotham then Ahaz then Hezekiah Followed by Manasseh who had Amon who was a man who was the father of a good boy named Josiah who grandfathered Jehoiakim who caused the Babylonian captivity because he was a liar Then he had Shealtiel who begat Zerubbabel who had Abiud who had Eliakim Eliakim had Azor who had Zadok who had Akim Akim was the father of Eliud, then... He had Eleazar who had Matthan who had Jacob Listen very closely, I don't want to sing this twice Jacob was the father of Joseph husband of Mary Mother of Christ.|KBC-777
english|Don't be stupid||Sittin' here all alone Thinkin what I might have done I thought that I couldn't miss But it ended up like this Don't be a fool, it's the second rule It aint just the staff I love It's the whole camp that I'm --thinkin' of Look at me no hands! I do what the crowd demands I've done this a million times Only ends up bad sometimes Don't be a fool, it's the second rule It aint just the staff I love It's the whole camp that I'm --thinkin' of|KBC-789
english|Fill Up The Chairs||Fill up the chairs Fill up the chairs Fill up the chairs and let `em overflow Let `em overflow with CAMPERS!|KBC-800
english|Now That You're Near||Hold me in Your arms Never let me go I wanna spend eternity with You I stand before You, Lord And give You all my praise Your love is all I need Jesus, You're all I need My life belongs to You You gave Your life for me Your grace is all I need Jesus, You're all I need Hold me in Your arms Never let me go I wanna spend eternity with You And now that You're near Everything is different Everything's so different, Lord And I know I'm not the same My life You've changed And I wanna be with You I wanna be with You And I will sing for You always Cause in Your presence God is where I wanna stay|KBC-801
english|Better Than Life||Better than the riches of this world Better than the sound of my friends voices Better than the biggest dreams in my heart And that's just the start Better than getting what I say I need Better than living the life that I wan't to Better than the love anyone could give Your love is You hold me now in Your arms You never let me go And You oh Lord made the sunshine the moonlight and the night sky You give me breath and all Your love I give my heart to You Because I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You Better than the riches of this world Better than the sound of my friends voices Better than the biggest dreams in my heart And that's just the start Better than getting what I say I need Better than living the life that I wan't to Better than the love anyone could give Your love is You hold me now in Your arms You never let me go And You oh Lord made the sunshine the moonlight and the nightsky You give me breath and all Your love I give my heart to You Because I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You You hold me now in Your arms You never let me go And You oh Lord made the sunshine the moonlight and the nightsky You give me breath and all Your love I give my heart to You Because I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You I can't stop falling in love with You I'll never stop falling in love with You|KBC-802
english|Counting Every Blessing||I was blind, now im seeing in colour I was dead, now im living forever I had failed, but you were my redeemer I've been blessed beyond all measure I was lost, now im found by the father I've been changed from a ruin to treasure I've been given a hope and a future ive been blessed beyond all measure I am counting every blessing, counting every blessing Letting go and trusting when i cannot see I am counting every blessing, counting every blessing Surely every season you are good to me You were good in the valley of shadows You were there in the depth of my sorrows You're my strength, my hope for tomorrow I've been blessed beyond all measure I am counting every blessing, counting every blessing Letting go and trusting when i cannot see I am counting every blessing, counting every blessin Surely every season you are good to me Surely your goodness pursues me Surely your heart is still for me I will remember your mercies all my days Through every storm and gale I am counting every blessing, counting every blessing letting go and trusting when i cannot see I am counting every blessing, counting every blessing surely every season you are good to me|KBC-877
english|Prodigal Rhapsody||Papa, I wasted all your dough Couldnt spend it fast enough Now its gone and life is rough Im really sorry that I was such a fool Sins effects are very cruel Papa, I wasted all you gave Now Im feeding pods to pigs And I wish had some figs To fill my belly Guess Ill just eat these pods I wish I werent so smelly Im now a poor boy nobody feeds me You are a poor boy from a rich family Wasted your wealth Now pods look good to eat Please give me pods I am very hungry I think Ill eat the pods Not the pods! I think Ill eat the pods Not the pods! I think Ill eat, I think Ill eat, Ill eat, Ill eat  WAIT! Papa, what a state Im in Ill get on the road right now And plan to see you at this time tomorrow Im so wrong, Im so wrong, I hope you can forgive me Son! Im so glad youre home You were dead now youre alive I didnt know you would survive And Im so happy, Give him robes, kill the cow We gonna party now Papa, all these years I served And you always had my vote But I never got your goat My brothers wasteful, Im so mad, Im so mad Youre party is distasteful I got no goat He came home! I got no goat He came home! I got no goat He came home! He came home! He came home! Son, you were always here But we all had to be glad Your brothers lifes been very sad Cause he was lost Now hes found, now hes found, Excitement will abound|KBC-998
english|Revelation 15:3-4||And they sang The song of Moses Servant of God And the song of the lamb Saying great Great and marvelous Are thy works Lord God almighty Just and true Are Thy ways O Lord Thou King of the earth Who will not fear Thee O Lord And glorify Thy name For Thou alone Only art Holy|IMS-1
english|Do Not Fear||Do not fear for I am with you (echo) Be not anxious for I am your God (echo) I will strengthen you (echo) Surely I will help you (echo) Surely I will hold you With my righteous right hand Do not fear for I am with you.|IMS-3
english|Love||Love the Lord your God with all your heart and all your soul and all your mind and love all of mankind as you would love yourself And love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul and mind and love all of mankind We've got Christian lives to live. We've got Jesus' love to give. We've got nothing to hide because in Him we abide...Love|IMS-4
english|Step By Step||O God, You are my God, And I will ever praise You! I will seek You in the morning, And I will learn to walk in Your ways; And step by step You'll lead me, And I will follow You all of my days. And I will follow You all of my days. And I will follow You all of my days. And step by step You'll lead me, And I will follow You all of my days.|IMS-5
english|Wonderful, Merciful Savior||Wonderful, Merciful Savior. Precious Redeemer and friend; Who would have thought that a lamb Could rescue the souls of men Oh, You rescue the souls of men. Counselor, comforter, keeper, Spirit we long to embrace, You offer hope when our hearts have Hopelessly lost the way. Oh, we've hopelessly lost the way. You are the one that we praise, You are the one we adore, You give the healing and grace our Hearts always hunger for. Oh, our hearts always hunger for. Almighty, infinite Father, Faithfully loving Your own, Here in our weakness You find us Falling before Your throne. Oh, we're falling before Your throne.|IMS-6
english|Forever Grateful||You did not wait for me to draw near to You, But You clothed Yourself with frail humanity. You did not wait for me to cry out to You, But You let me hear Your voice calling me. And I'm forever grateful to You. I'm forever grateful for the cross. I'm forever grateful to You, That You came to seek and save the lost. You saw me as a pearl of the greatest price And You gave up all you had to purchase me. I was the lost lamb that had gone astray, But You left the ninety-nine to rescue me. And I'm forever grateful to You. I'm forever grateful for the cross. I'm forever grateful to You, That You came to seek and save the lost.|IMS-7
english|All God's Critters||All God's critters got a place in the choir, Some sing low, some sing higher, Some sing out on the telephone wire, Some just clap their hands Or paws or anything they got now. The dog and the cat They take up the middle Where the honey bee hums And the cricket fiddles, The pony neighs And the donkey brays And coyote howls! All God's critters got a place in the choir, Some sing low, some sing higher, Some sing out on the telephone wire, Some just clap their hands Or paws or anything they got now. Listen to the bass, It's the one on the bottom Where the bullfrog croaks And the hippopotamus Moans and groans with a big ta do And the old cow just goes moo! All God's critters got a place in the choir, Some sing low, some sing higher, Some sing out on the telephone wire, Some just clap their hands Or paws or anything they got now. Listen to the song That the little bird sings Where the melody's high And the high notes ring And the hoot owl hollers Over everything And the jay bird disagrees. All God's critters got a place in the choir, Some sing low, some sing higher, Some sing out on the telephone wire, Some just clap their hands Or paws or anything they got now. It's a simple song A livin' song everywhere About the ox and the fox And the grizzly bear, The grumpy alligator And the hawk above; The sly raccoon And the turtle dove. All God's critters got a place in the choir, Some sing low, some sing higher, Some sing out on the telephone wire, Some just clap their hands Or paws or anything they got now.|IMS-8
english|Thank you Jesus||Thank you Jesus, Thank you Jesus, Thank you Lord for loving me. Thank you Jesus, Thank you Jesus, Thank you Lord for loving me. You went to Calvary, There you died for me, Thank you Lord for loving me. You went to Calvary, There you died for me, Thank you Lord for loving me. You rose up from the grave, To me new life you gave, Thank you Lord for loving me. You rose up from the grave, To me new life you gave, Thank you Lord for loving me. You're coming back for me, To live eternally Thank you Lord for loving me. You're coming back for me, To live eternally Thank you Lord for loving me. Thank you Jesus, Thank you Jesus, Thank you Lord for loving me. Thank you Jesus, Thank you Jesus, Thank you Lord for loving me.|IMS-9
english|Romans 12:9-14||Let love be without hypocrisy Abhor what is evil Clinging to what is good And be devoted to one another In brotherly love Give preference to one another in honor Not lagging behind in diligence Fervent in spirit, Serving, serving the Lord Rejoicing in hope Persevering in tribulation Devoted to prayer Contributing to the needs Of the saints Practicing hospitality Bless those who persecute you Bless and curse not|IMS-11
english|Romans 5:1 and 1:17||Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God. But My righteous one shall live by faith, Shall live by faith. Therefore being justified by faith, We have peace, peace with God.|IMS-12
english|Romans 8:1-2||There is therefore now no condemnation For those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit Of life in Christ Jesus Has set you free from the law Of sin and death.|IMS-13
english|Romans 8:35||Who shall separate us From the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, Or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, Shall peril, or sword- From the love of our Lord?|IMS-14
english|Romans 12:1-2||I urge you therefore bretheren By the mercies of God to present your bodies A living and holy sacrifice Acceptable to God Which is your spiritual service of worship And do not be conformed to this world But be ye transformed By the renewing of your M-iiiiiiiiiiiii-nd That you may prove What the will of God is That which is good Bm F D And acceptable and perfect|IMS-15
english|Awesome God||Our God is an awesome God He reigns from heaven above With wisdom, power, and love Our God is an awesome God When He rolls up His sleeves He ain't just puttin' on the ritz Our God is an awesome God There is thunder in His footsteps And lightning in His fists Our God is an awesome God The Lord wasn't joking When He kicked them out of Eden It wasn't for no reason That He shed His blood His return is very close So you better be believing that Our God is an awesome God Our God is an awesome God He reigns from heaven above With wisdom, power, and love Our God is an awesome God When the sky was starless In the void of the night Our God is an awesome God He spoke into the darkness And created the light Our God is an awesome God Judgment and wrath He poured out on Sodom Mercy and grace He gave us at the cross I hope that we have not Too quickly forgotten that Our God is an awesome God Our God is an awesome God He reigns from heaven above With wisdom, power, and love Our God is an awesome God|IMS-16
english|Behold what manner of love||Behold what manner of love the Father has given unto us, Behold what manner of love the Father has given unto us, That we should be called the sons of God. That we should be called the sons of God.|IMS-17
english|1 John 4:7-8||Beloved let us love one another For love is of God And everyone that loveth Is born of God and knoweth God, He that loveth not, Knoweth not God, For God is love, Beloved let us love one another. First John 4:7 and 8 (yeah!)|IMS-18
english|Love||Love, love, love, love Christians this is your call Love your neighbor As yourself for God is love.|IMS-19
english|A new commandment||A new commandment I give unto you That you love one another As I have loved you That you love one another, As I have loved you. By this shall all men know That you are my disciples If you have love one for another, By this shall all men know That you are my disciples If you have love one for another,|IMS-20
english|If a man loves me,||If a man loves me, He will keep my word. If a man loves me, He will keep my word, And my Father will love him, And we will come unto him And make our abode with him.|IMS-21
english|This is My Desire||This is my desire: To Honor You Lord with all my heart I worship You All I have within me, I give You praise All that I adore is in YOU Lord I give you my heart I give you my soul, I live for you alone Every breath that I take, Every moment I'm awake Lord have your way in me|IMS-22
english|My God Is So Big||My God is so big, So strong and so mighty There's nothing my God cannot do. The mountains are His, The rivers are His, The stars are His handiwork, too.|IMS-24
english|Give Thanks||Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the Holy One; Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ his Son. And now, Let the weak say "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich," Because of what the Lord has done for us. And now, Let the weak say "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich," Because of what the Lord has done for us. Give thanks. Give thanks.|IMS-25
english|He Is Exalted||He is exalted, The King is exalted on high. I will praise Him! He is exalted, forever exalted And I will praise His name. He is the Lord. Forever His truth shall reign. Heaven and earth Rejoice in His holy name. He is exalted; The King is exalted on high!|IMS-26
english|My Life Is In You||My life is in You, Lord. My strength is in You, Lord. My hope is in You, Lord, In you, it's in You. I will praise You with all of my life. I will praise You with all of my strength; With all of my life, With all of my strength, All of my hope is in You.|IMS-27
english|Seek Ye First||Seek ye first the kingdom of God And His righteousness And all these things Shall be added unto you Allelu, alleluia Ask and it shall be given unto you Seek and ye shall find Knock and the door Shall be opened unto you Allelu, alleluia Man shall not live by bread alone But by every word That proceeds From the mouth of God Allelu, alleluia|IMS-28
english|Great is the Lord Almighty||The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When the children of Israel Came to the brink, He led them through Letting Pharoah sink. The children were dancing As old Pharoah sank down, Lifting up a mighty Joyful sound, Singing Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord Almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, great is the Lord! The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When the children of God Came up to Jericho town, The Lord said, "Children, Let's walk around." So for seven whole days They walked around that great wall Till the Lord said, Shout! and watch it fall, children" Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord Almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, great is the Lord! The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns, He is a mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When the children were dying And lost in their sin, My God died And He rose again; And I've been rejoicing Since He took my blame, I thank you, Jesus! Praise your name! Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord Almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord Almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, great is the Lord!|IMS-29
english|Cry Of My Heart||It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life. Teach me Your holy ways, Oh Lord, So I can walk in Your truth. Teach me Your holy ways, Oh Lord, And make me wholly devoted to You. Oh, Oh, Oh! It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life. Open my eyes so I can see The wonderful things that You do. Open my heart up more and more, And make me wholly devoted to You. Oh, Oh, Oh! It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life.|IMS-30
english|Change my heart||Change my heart, O God, Make it ever true; Change my heart, O God, May I be like You. You are the Potter; I am the clay. Mold me and make me; This is what I pray.|IMS-31
english|Jehovah Jireh||Jehovah Jireh, my Provider, His grace is sufficient for me, for me, for me; Jehovah Jireh, my Provider, His grace is sufficient for me. My God shall supply all my needs According to His riches in glory: He will give His angels charge over me, Jehovah Jireh cares for me, for me, for me. Jehovah Jireh cares for me.|IMS-32
english|Onward Christian Soldiers||Onward Christian soldiers, Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus Going on before: Christ the royal master Leads against the Foe; Forward into battle, See His banners go. Onward Christian soldiers, Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus Going on before. Like a mighty army, Moves the church of God; Brothers we are treading Where the saints have trod; We are not divided, All one body we, One in hope and doctrine, One in charity. Onward Christian soldiers, Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus Going on before. Crowns and thrones may perish, Kingdoms rise and wane, But the church of Jesus Constant will remain; Gates of Hell can never Gainst that church prevail; We have Christ's own promise, And that cannot fail. Onward Christian soldiers, Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus Going on before. Onward, then, ye people, Join our happy throng, Blend with ours your voices In the triumph song; Glory, laud and honor Unto Christ the King; This through countless ages Men and angels sing. Onward Christian soldiers, Marching as to war, With the cross of Jesus Going on before.|IMS-33
english|White As Snow||White as snow, White as snow Though my sins were as scarlet, Lord, I know, Lord , I know, That I'm clean and forgiven. Through the power of Your blood, Through the wonder of Your love, Through faith in You I know that I can be... White as snow, White as snow Though my sins were as scarlet, Lord, I know, Lord , I know, That I'm clean and forgiven. Through the power of Your blood, Through the wonder of Your love, Through faith in You I know that I can be... White as snow.|IMS-34
english|I Could Sing Of Your Love||Over the mountains and the sea Your river runs with love for me And I will open up my heart And let the Healer set me free. I'm happy to be in the truth And I will daily lift my hands For I will always sing of When Your love came down. I could sing of Your love forever. I could sing of Your love forever.|IMS-35
english|Candle In The Dark||I want to be a candle in the dark, I want to be a flame that's in the night, And I want my friends to know that Jesus saves! Don't want to be afraid to speak His name, Or stand up for what is right. Help me Jesus to be bold, to be brave. He says, "What'll you do now, my child, To see your life become strong?" I say, "I'll talk to You, I'll read Your Word, I'll sing some worship songs!" Help me Jesus to be bold, to be brave. Help me Jesus to be bold, to be brave.|IMS-36
english|John 10:27||My sheep hear My voice And I know them and they follow Me And I give unto them eternal life; And they shall never perish, Neither shall any man Pluck them out of My hand.|IMS-37
english|As We Gather / I Love You Lord||As we gather, may Your Spirit work within us As we gather may we glorify Your name. Knowing well that as Our hearts begin to worship We'll be blessed because we came. We'll be blessed because we came. I love You Lord and I lift my voice To worship You oh my soul rejoice Take joy my King in what You hear May it be a sweet, sweet sound in Your ear|IMS-38
english|Jesus Loves Me||Jesus loves me this I know For the Bible tells me so Little ones to him belong They are weak but He is strong Yes, Jesus loves me Yes, Jesus loves me Yes, Jesus loves me The Bible tells me so. Jesus ayoo 'a sho' ni, Bi naal tsoos yee shi hal ne', A chi ni gi a nish t'e, Doo shi dziil da, Ei bi dziil. Jesus a yoo'a sho ni, Jesus a yoo'a sho ni, Jesus a yoo'a sho ni, Bi zaad yee shi hal ne'.|IMS-39
english|Psalm 119:105||Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. When I feel afraid, think I've lost my way, Still You're there right beside me Nothing will I fear, as long as You are near, Please be near me to the end. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. I will not forget Your love for me and yet My heart forever is wandering. Jesus be my guide and hold me to Your side And I will love you to the end. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path.|IMS-40
english|God Bless America||God bless America land that I love Stand beside her and guide her Through the night with a light from above. From the mountains to the prairies To the oceans white with foam God bless America my home sweet home, God bless America my home sweet home.|IMS-41
english|Shout To The North||Men of faith, rise up and sing Of the great and glorious King. You are strong when you feel weak, In your brokenness complete. Shout to the north and the south; Sing to the east and the west. Jesus is Saviour to all, Lord of heaven and earth. Rise up, women of the truth, Stand and sing to broken hearts Who can know the healing pow'r Of our awesome King of love. Shout to the north and the south; Sing to the east and the west. Jesus is Saviour to all, Lord of heaven and earth. We've been through fire, We've been through rain; We've been refined by the power of His name. We've fallen deeper in love with You. You've burned the truth on our lips. Shout to the north and the south; Sing to the east and the west. Jesus is Saviour to all, Lord of heaven and earth. Rise up, church with broken wings, Fill this place with songs again Of our God who reigns on high. By His grace again we'll fly. Shout to the north and the south; Sing to the east and the west. Jesus is Saviour to all, Lord of heaven and earth. Lord of heaven and earth. Lord of heaven and earth.|IMS-42
english|Jesus Draw Me Closer||Jesus draw me closer Closer Lord to you. Let the world around me Fade away from view. Jesus draw me closer Closer Lord to you. For I desire to worship and obey. Jesus draw me closer Closer Lord to you. Let the world around me Fade away from view. Jesus draw me closer Closer Lord to you. For I desire to worship and obey. For I desire to worship and obey. O Jesus Sweet Jesus|IMS-43
navajo|Diyin, Diyinii God|Holy, Holy, Holy||Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Early in the morning Our song shall rise to Thee; Holy, holy, holy! Merciful and mighty! God in Three Persons, Blessed Trinity! Diyin, Diyinii God, Ayoo anoodziilii, Tsida abinigo dahwiitaa Diyin, Diyinii God, Jiiniba doo Nidziil, Taago Taaai Nandliinii nili Holy, holy, holy, Though the darkness hide Thee, Though the eye of sinful man Thy glory may not see, Only Thou art holy; There is none beside Thee Perfect in pow'r, In love and purity. Diyin, Diyinii God, Ay'nodziilii,Iinilaii t''t' naa Dahaniih doolee.Diyin, Diyinii God, Jiinba' d Nidziil, Ta'go T'' Ndlinii nl.|IMS-44
english|You Are My King||I'm forgiven... because You were forsaken. I'm accepted... You were condemned I'm alive and well, Your Spirit is within me, because You died and rose again. Amazing love, how can it be That You, my King, would die for me? Amazing love, I know it's true It's my joy to honor You in all I do... I honor You I'm forgiven... because You were forsaken. I'm accepted... You were condemned I'm alive and well, Your Spirit is within me, because You died and rose again. Amazing love, how can it be That You, my King, would die for me? Amazing love, I know it's true It's my joy to honor You in all I do... I honor You|IMS-45
english|Live a Life of Love||Live a Life of Love just as Christ loved us Live a life of love just as Christ loved us Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave Himself up for us. Come share His love with others, Sisters and brothers. Love just like Jesus did. Come give his love away, Start today, And the world is gonna know that we are his Live a life of love just as Christ loved us Live a life of love just as Christ loved us Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave Himself up for us. Live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave Himself up for us.|IMS-46
english|All In All||You are my Strength when I am weak, You are the Treasure that I seek; You are my All in All; Seeking You as a precious Jewel, Lord, to give up I'd be a fool; You are my All in All. Jesus, Lamb of God, Worthy is Your Name; Jesus, Lamb of God, Worthy is Your Name. Taking my sin, my cross my shame, Rising again, I bless Your name; You are my all in all; When I fall down You pick me up, When I am dry You fill my cup; You are my all in all.|IMS-47
english|Hebrews 4:12||For the word of God is living and active And sharper than any two-edged sword Piercing as far as the division Of soul and spirit Of both joints and marrow And able to judge the thoughts And intentions of the heart|IMS-48
english|Acts 3:1-10||Peter and John went to pray, They met a lame man on the way, He stuck out his palm And he asked for an alm, And this is what they had to say: Silver and gold have I none, But such as I have give I thee, In the name of Jesus Christ Of Nazareth, rise up and walk!" I'm walking and leaping and praising God! Walking and leaping and praising God." In the name of Jesus Christ Of Nazareth, rise up and walk!"|IMS-49
english|The Wise Man||The wise man built his house upon a rock The wise man built his house upon a rock The wise man built his house upon a rock And the rains came tumbling down. The rains came down and the floods came up The rains came down and the floods came up The rains came down and the floods came up And the house on the rock stood firm The foolish man built his house upon the sand And the rains came tumbling down The rains came down and the floods came up The rains came down and the floods came up The rains came down and the floods came up And the house on the sand fell flat So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ And the blessings will come down The blessings come down as your prayers go up The blessings come down as your prayers go up The blessings come down as your prayers go up So build your life on the Lord|IMS-50
english|You Are The Rock Of My Salvation||You are The Rock of my Salvation, You are the Strength of my life. You are my hope and my inspiration Lord unto You will I cry I believe in You Believe in You for Your faithful love to me. You have been my help in time of need Lord, unto you will I cling.|IMS-51
english|My Lips Will Praise You||My lips will praise you, for you are holy; My voice will ever rise before your throne. My heart will love you, for you are lovely, And you have called me to become your own. I am your own, And I will worship you alone. I am your own. I am your child. I am your own, And I will worship at your throne. I am your own, and I will love you. My lips will praise you, for you are holy; My voice will ever rise before your throne. My heart will love you, for you are lovely, And you have called me to become your own. And you have called me to become your own.|IMS-52
english|Jesus, Lover of My Soul||It's all about you, Jesus, And all this is for you, For your glory and your fame. It's not about me, As if you should do things my way; You alone are God, And I surrender to your ways. Jesus, lover of my soul, All consuming fire is in your gaze. Jesus, I want you to know I will follow you all my days. For no one else in history is like you, And history itself belongs to you. Alpha and Omega, you have loved me, And I will share eternity with you. For no one else in history is like you, And history itself belongs to you. Alpha and Omega, you have loved me, And I will share eternity with you.ha and Omega, you have loved me, And I will share eternity with you.|IMS-53
english|The Heart of Worship||When the music fades, all is stripped away, And I simply come; Longing just to bring something that's of worth That will bless your heart. I'll bring you more than a song, For a song in itself is not what you have required. You search much deeper within through the way things appear; You're looking into my heart. I'm coming back to the heart of worship, And it's all about you, all about you, Jesus. I'm sorry, Lord, for the thing I've made it, When it's all about you, all about you, Jesus. King of endless worth, No one could express How much you deserve. Though I'm weak and poor, All I have is yours, Every single breath. I'll bring you more than a song, For a song in itself is not what you have required. You search much deeper within through the way things appear; You're looking into my heart. I'm coming back to the heart of worship, And it's all about you, all about you, Jesus. I'm sorry, Lord, for the thing I've made it, When it's all about you, all about you, Jesus.|IMS-54
english|Once Again||Jesus Christ, I think upon your sacrifice; You became nothing, poured out to death. Many times I've wondered at your gift of life, And I'm in that place once again. I'm in that place once again. Once again I look upon the cross where you died. I'm humbled by your mercy and I'm broken inside. Once again I thank you, once again I pour out my life. Now you are exalted to the highest place, King of the heavens, where one day I'll bow. But, for now, I marvel at this saving grace, and I'm full of praise once again. I'm full of praise once again. Once again I look upon the cross where you died. I'm humbled by your mercy and I'm broken inside. Once again I thank you, once again I pour out my life. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the cross, my friend. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the cross, my friend. Once again I look upon the cross where you died. I'm humbled by your mercy and I'm broken inside. Once again I thank you, once again I pour out my life.|IMS-55
english|He is Good||He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good. He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks, for He is good. For his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds, Give thanks, give thanks to the Lord! He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks, for He is good. He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good. He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks, for He is good. For his unfailing love and his wonderful deeds, Give thanks, give thanks to the Lord! He is good, He is good. His love endures forever. Give thanks, for He is good.|IMS-56
english|Thank You for the Blood||Thank you, thank you for the blood that you shed, Standing in its blessing, we sing these freedom songs. Thank you, thank you for the battle you won. Standing in your victory, We sing salvation songs, We salvation's song. You have opened a way to the Father Where before we could never have come. Jesus, count us as yours now forever, As we sing these freedom songs. We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done for us, Won for us, paid for us. We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done for us, Won for us, paid for us. Thank you, thank you for the blood that you shed, Standing in its blessing, we sing these freedom songs. Thank you, thank you for the battle you won. Standing in your victory, We sing salvation songs, We salvation's song. You have opened a way to the Father Where before we could never have come. Jesus, count us as yours now forever, As we sing these freedom songs. We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done for us, Won for us, paid for us. We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done, We sing of all you've done for us, Won for us, paid for us.|IMS-57
english|Abraham||I'm a twice born child of Abraham in the covenant God made with him, I thank God for the faithfulness of Abraham He taught me how to live believing in my God. See him standing there a desert man, see him gazing at the skies Hear the Lord saying, so shall your descendants be As countless as the stars like sand upon the shore Abraham covenant man trusting in the promises of God Abraham covenant man He taught me how to live believing in my God. See him climbing Mount Moriah now see him binding Isaac there Hear him cry as he lifts the knife to slay his son The angel stays his hand and points him to the ram Abraham covenant man trusting in the promises of God Abraham covenant man He taught me how to live believing in my God.|IMS-58
english|Rolled Away||Rolled away, rolled away, rolled away Every burden of my heart rolled away. Rolled away, rolled away, rolled away Every burden of my heart rolled away. All my sin had to go Neath the crimson flow, Hallelujah Rolled away, rolled away, rolled away Every burden of my heart rolled away.|IMS-59
english|Marriage of the Lamb||Let us rejoice and be glad, For the marriage of the Lamb. Let us give glory and honor to Him; For this hath the bride been prepared. Cheery Cheery Boom... Hallelujah! Hallelujah! The Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! The Lord the Almighty reigns. Clothed in linen, she hath come For the marriage of the Lamb. Arrayed is she in righteousness; For this hath the bride been prepared Cheery Cheery Boom... Hallelujah! Hallelujah! The Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Hallelujah! Halleluhah! The Lord the Almighty reigns. Blest are they who have been called To the marriage of the Lamb Clothed in bride-like purity For this have we all been prepared Hallelujah! Hallelujah! The Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! The Lord the Almighty reigns. Cheery Cheery Boom...|IMS-61
english|Alle, Alle||Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Praise Him every day; Every day sing alle, Every day sing alle, Al le lu ia! He lived for us, he died for us He rose from the dead. He freed us from the grasp of sin, He rose from the dead. Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Praise Him every day; Every day sing alle, Every day sing alle, Al le lu ia; He was a man yet God's own Son, He rose from the dead. He shared His glory with all men, He rose from the dead. Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Praise Him every day; Every day sing alle, Every day sing alle, Al le lu ia! He lights the darkness of our lives, He rose from the dead. With Him we rise to die no more, He rose from the dead. Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Alle, alle, alle lu ia; Praise Him every day; Every day sing alle, Every day sing alle, Al le lu ia!|IMS-62
english|Agnus Dei||Al le lu ia, Al le lu ia, For the Lord, God almighty reigns. Al le lu ia, Al le lu ia, For the Lord, God almighty reigns. Al le lu ia, Holy, holy are you Lord, God almighty. Worthy is the Lamb, Worthy is the Lamb. For You are holy, Holy are you Lord, God almighty Worthy is the Lamb, Worthy is the Lamb, Amen|IMS-63
english|Allelu!||Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing Allelu! God said He would send His Son, Allelu, Allelu! And salvation would be won Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing Allelu! Christ was born in Bethlehem, Allelu! Allelu! So that man would live again, Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing allelu! Thirty years He walked the land, Allelu! Allelu! To all in need, He lent His hand, Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing allelu! On the hard wood of the cross Allelu! Allelu! He suffered and He died for us, Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing allelu! On the third day He did rise Allelu! Allelu! Now He lives no more to die, Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing allelu! Now we too can live anew Allelu! Allelu! Live in Him need all we do Alleluia! Allelu! Allelu! Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true. Everybody sing allelu!|IMS-64
english|We Three Kings||We three kings of Orient are; Bearing gifts we traverse afar, Field and fountain, moor and mountain, Following yonder star. O star of wonder, star of night, Star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading, still proceeding, Guide us to thy perfect light. Born a King on Bethlehem's plain Gold I bring to crown Him again, King forever, ceasing never, Over us all to reign. O star of wonder, star of night, Star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading, still proceeding, Guide us to thy perfect light. Frankincense to offer have I; Incense owns a Deity nigh; Prayer and praising, all men raising, Worship Him God most high. O star of wonder, star of night, Star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading, still proceeding, Guide us to thy perfect light. Myrrh is mine, its bitter perfume Breathes a life of gathering gloom; Sorrowing, sighing, bleeding, dying, Sealed in the stone cold tomb. O star of wonder, star of light, Star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading, still proceeding, Guide us to thy perfect light. Glorious now behold Him arise; King and God and sacrifice; Alleluia, Alleluia, Earth to heaven replies. O star of wonder, star of light, Star with royal beauty bright, Westward leading, still proceeding, Guide us to thy perfect light.|IMS-65
english|When Jesus Wept||When Jesus wept, the falling tear In mercy flowed beyond all bound; When Jesus groaned, a trembling fear Seized all the guilty world around.|IMS-66
english|Keep Me Close To You||I'll follow you, Lord, If you will lead me If you'll just show me the way I should go Keep me close to you. Follow through the desert Through the lonely places Out into the darkness with you as my light Keep me close to you. And up the mountainside On the wings of eagles Soaring into your light, your spirit of life Keep me close to you|IMS-67
english|Our Great God||Eternal God unchanging Mysterious and unknown Your boundless love unfailing In grace and mercy shown Bright seraphim in ceaseless flight Around Your glorious throne They raise their voices day and night In praise to You alone Hallelujah Glory be to our great God Hallelujah Glory be to our great God Lord we are weak and frail Helpless in the storm Surround us with Your angels Hold us in Your arms Our cold and ruthless enemy His pleasure is our harm Rise up O Lord and he will flee Before our sovereign God Let every creature in the sea and Every flying bird Let every mountain every field And valley of the earth Let all the moons and all the stars In all the universe Sing praises to the living God Who rules them by His Word|IMS-68
english|Christian Cowboy||I'm a Christian cowboy Ridin' for the Lord Tellin' folks about Jesus, Is my favorite chore I cant seem to help it After what He's done for me When I believed in Him He forgave my sin Now Ill live eternally Do ya want to be God's ranch hand Bringing in the strays Tellin' folks about Jesus All your live long days Then listen to this one thing Here's what you've got to do Believe in Him He'll forgive your sin Then go tell others too! I'm a Christian cowboy Ridin' for the Lord Tellin' folks about Jesus, Is my favorite chore I cant seem to help it After what He's done for me When I believed in Him He forgave my sin Now Ill live eternally|IMS-69
english|God Is My Refuge||God is my refuge, and God is my strength. A very present help in trouble. Therefore I will not fear, Though the earth be removed And though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea.|IMS-70
english|He is the King of Kings||He is the King of Kings, He is the Lord of Lords, His name is Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Oh, He is the King.|IMS-71
english|Sanctuary||Lord prepare me, to be a sanctuary Pure and holy, tried and true. With thanksgiving, I'll be a living Sanctuary for you.|IMS-72
english|Lift Up Your Heads||Lift Up Your Heads to the coming King. Bow before Him and adore Him, sing. To His Majesty let your praises be pure and holy, Giving glory to the King of Kings.|IMS-73
english|Mighty Warrior||Mighty Warrior dressed for battle. Holy Lord of all is He. Commander in Chief, Bring us to attention, Lead us into battle to crush the enemy. Satan has no authority here in this place. He has no authority here. For this habitation was fashioned for the Lord's presence, No authority here. Mighty Warrior dressed for battle. Holy Lord of all is He. Commander in Chief, Bring us to attention, Lead us into battle to crush the enemy. Jesus has all authority here in this place. He has all authority here. For this habitation was fashioned for the Lord's presence, All authority here. Mighty Warrior dressed for battle. Holy Lord of all is He. Commander in Chief, Bring us to attention, Lead us into battle to crush the enemy.|IMS-74
english|Jesus, All for Jesus||Jesus, All for Jesus, All I am and have and ever hope to be; All of my ambitions, hopes and plans I surrender these into your hands. For it's only in Your will that I am free, For it's only in Your will that I am free, Jesus, All for Jesus, All I am and have and ever hope to be;|IMS-75
english|Asithi: Amen||Asithi: Amen, si ya ku du mi sa. Asithi: Amen, si ya ku du mi sa. Asithi: Amen, Baba, Amen, Baba, Amen, si ya ku du mi sa. Sing amen: Amen, we praise your name, O Lord. Sing amen: Amen, amen, amen, amen, Amen, we praise your name, O Lord.|IMS-76
english|Psalm 119:11||I have hidden Your word Hidden Your word Hidden Your word in my heart I have hidden Your word, Hidden Your word, Hidden Your word in my heart That I might not sin That I might not sin T hat I might not sin against You|IMS-77
english|Ephesians 6:1||Children, obey your parents in the Lord, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, For this is right. For this is right. Children, obey your parents in the Lord.|IMS-78
english|John 1:12||Yet to all who received Him, To those who believed in His name, He gave the right to, To become children of God [Right Arm] Yet to all who received Him, To those who believed in His name, He gave the right to, To become children of God [Right Arm] [Left Arm] Yet to all who received Him, To those who believed in His name, He gave the right to, To become children of God [Right Arm] [Left Arm] [Right Foot] Yet to all who received Him, To those who believed in His name, He gave the right to, To become children of God [Right Arm] [Left Arm] [Right Foot] [Left Foot] Yet to all who received Him, To those who believed in His name, He gave the right to, To become children of God [Right Arm] [Left Arm] [Right Foot] [Left Foot] [Turn Around] [Sit Down]|IMS-79
english|Ho Ho Ho Hosanna||Ho ho ho ho-sanna! Ha ha ha-llelujah! He he he He saved me! I've got the joy of the Lord!|IMS-80
english|All Heaven Declares||All heav'n declares the glory of the risen Lord Who can compare with the beauty of the Lord? Forever He will be the Lamb upon the throne. I gladly bow the knee and worship Him alone. I will proclaim the glory of the risen Lord. Who once was slain to reconcile man to God. Forever You will be the Lamb upon the throne. I gladly bow the knee and worship You alone.|IMS-81
english|All In All||You are my strength when I am weak You are the treasure that I seek You are my all in all! Seeking You as a precious jewel Lord, to give up I'd be a fool You are my all in all! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name! Taking my sin, my cross, my shame Rising again I bless Your name You are my all in all! When I fall down You pick me up When I am dry you fill my cup You are my all in all! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name! Jesus, Lamb of God Worthy is Your name!|IMS-82
english|Be Unto Your Name||We are a moment, You are forever, Lord of the ages, God before time. We are a vapor, You are eternal, Love everlasting, reigning on high Holy, holy, Lord God Almighty Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. Highest praises, honor and glory Be unto Your name Be unto Your name We are the broken, You are the healer, Jesus redeemer mighty to save You are the love song we'll sing forever Bowing before you blessing Your name Holy, holy, Lord God Almighty Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. Highest praises, honor and glory Be unto Your name Be unto Your name|IMS-83
english|I want to praise you, Lord||I want to praise you, Lord, Much more than I do. I want to praise you, Lord, Much more than I do. Learn to seek Your face And the knowledge of your grace, I want to praise you. ...(love)...(serve)...(praise) Birds in the sky sing their songs to you Trees in the fields lift their arms to you I want to sing, I want to lift my arms to you.|IMS-84
english|Jesus is My Lord||Jesus is my Lord, my Master, and Savior Jesus is my Lord, my Master, and Savior Jesus is my Lord, my Master, and Savior Now and forever more, Hallelujah Now and forever more. Praise you Jesus, Son of God, And the blood of the Lamb. King of Kings and Lord of Lords, God of Abraham, hallelujah God of Abraham. Jesus is the one who delivers me daily Jesus is the one who delivers me daily Jesus is the one who delivers me daily From all my sin and shame, hallelujah, From all my sin and shame. Praise you Jesus, Son of God, And the blood of the Lamb. King of Kings and Lord of Lords, God of Abraham, hallelujah God of Abraham.|IMS-85
english|Victory Song||Through our God, we shall do valiantly, It is He who will tread down our enemies, We'll sing and shout His victory, Christ is King! For God has won the victory And set His people free. His Word has slain the enemy. The earth shall stand and see that|IMS-86
english|There is a Redeemer||There is a Redeemer Jesus God's own Son Precious Lamb of God Messiah Oh Holy One Jesus my Redeemer Name above all names Precious Lamb of God Messiah Oh for sinners slain Thank You oh my Father For giving us Your Son And leaving Your Spirit 'til The work on earth is done When I stand in glory I will see His face And there I'll serve my King forever In that holy place Thank You oh my Father For giving us Your Son And leaving Your Spirit 'til The work on earth is done|IMS-87
english|This Train Medley||This train is bound for glory, this train, This train is bound for glory, this train, This train is bound for glory All aboard for the gospel story This train is bound for glory, this train. Oh, when the saints go marching in, Oh, when the saints go marching in, Oh, how I want to be in that number Oh, when the saints go marching in. Swing low, sweet chariot, Coming for to carry me home; Swing low, sweet chariot, Coming for to carry me home. I'm gonna sing, sing, sing; I'm gonna shout, shout, shout; I'm gonna sing, I'm gonna shout, Praise the Lord! When those gates swing open wide, I'm gonna sing by Jesus' side; I'm gonna sing, I'm gonna shout, Praise the Lord!the Lord!|IMS-88
english|Lord Reign In Me||Over all the earth you reign on high Every mountain stream, every sunset sky But my one request, Lord, my only aim Is that you'd reign in me again. Lord reign in me, reign in your power Over all my dreams in my darkest hour You are the Lord of all I am So won't you reign in me again Over every thought, over every word May my life reflect the beauty of the Lord You mean more to me than any earthly thing So won't you reign in me again. Lord reign in me, reign in your power Over all my dreams in my darkest hour You are the Lord of all I am So won't you reign in me again|IMS-89
english|Before The Throne of God Above||Before the throne of God above, I have a strong, a perfect plea, A great High Priest whose name is "Love," Who ever lives and pleads for me. My name is graven on His hands, My name is written on His heart; I know that while in heav'n He stands No tongue can bid me thence depart. No tongue can bid me thence depart. When Satan tempts me to despair, And tells me of the guilt within, Upward I look and see Him there Who made an end to all my sin. Because the sinless Savior died, My sinful soul is counted free; For God, the Just, is satisfied To look on Him and pardon me. To look on Him and pardon me. Behold Him there! the risen Lamb, My perfect, spotless Righteousness, The great unchangeable I AM, The King of glory and of grace One with Himself I cannot die, My soul is purchased by His blood; My life is hid with Christ on high, With Christ, my Savior and my God With Christ, my Savior and my God|IMS-90
english|Psalm 56:3||When I am afraid, I will trust in You I will trust in You I will trust in You When I am afraid, I will trust in You When I am afraid|IMS-91
english|More Love, More Power||More love, more power, More of You in my life; More love, more power, More of You in my life; I will worship You with all of my heart, I will worship You with all of my mind, I will worship You with all of my strength, You are my Lord, You are my King, You are my Life.|IMS-92
english|Trading My Sorrows||I'm trading my sorrows; I'm trading my shame. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. I'm trading my sickness; I'm trading my pain. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Amen. I am pressed but not crushed, Persecuted, not abandoned, Struck down, but not destroyed. I am blessed beyond the curse, For His promise will endure, That His joy's gonna be my strength. Though the sorrow may last for the night, His joy comes in the morning. I'm trading my sorrows; I'm trading my shame. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. I'm trading my sickness; I'm trading my pain. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Yes, Lord, yes Lord, yes, yes, Lord. Amen. I am pressed but not crushed, Persecuted, not abandoned, Struck down, but not destroyed. I am blessed beyond the curse, For His promise will endure, That His joy's gonna be my strength. Though the sorrow may last for the night, His joy comes in the morning. I'm trading my sorrows; I'm trading my shame. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. I'm trading my sickness; I'm trading my pain. I'm laying them down For the joy of the Lord. La, la, la, ...|IMS-93
english|Look, Ye Saints! the Sight is Glorious||Look, ye saints! The sight is glorious: See the Man of Sorrows now; From the fight returned victorious, Ev'ry knee to Him shall bow: Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crowns become the Victor's brow, Crowns become the Victor's brow. Crown the Savior! Angels, crown Him! Rich the trophies Jesus brings; In the seat of pow'r enthrone Him, While the vault of heaven rings: Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown the Savior King of kings, Crown the Savior King of kings. Sinners in derision crowned Him, Mocking thus the Savior's claim; Saints and angels crowd around Him, Own His title, praise His name: Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Spread abroad the Victor's fame, Spread abroad the Victor's fame. Hark! those bursts of acclamation! Hark, those loud triumphant chords! Jesus takes the highest station; O what joy the sight affords! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! Crown Him! King of kings, and Lord of lords! King of kings, and Lord of lords!|IMS-94
english|Jehovah Jireh||Jehovah Jireh, my provider, His grace is sufficient for me, for me, for me. Jehovah Jireh, my provider, His grace is sufficient for me. My God shall supply all my needs according to his riches and Glory, He'll give His angels charge over me, Jehovah Jireh cares for me, for me, for me. Jehovah Jireh cares for me.|IMS-95
english|Ephesians 4:32 (with an addition)||Be ye kind one to another Tenderhearted, forgiving one another Even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you Doo doo doodley doo Ephesians 4:32 Bumb bumb bumb Bumb|IMS-96
english|Because He Lives||God sent His Son--They called Him Jesus He came to love, heal and forgive; He lived and died to buy my pardon, An empty grave is there to prove my Savior lives. Because He lives I can face tomorrow, Because He lives all fear is gone, Because I know He holds the future And life is worth the living just because He lives How sweet to hold a newborn baby And feel the pride and joy he gives; But greater still the calm assurance This child can face uncertain days because He lives And then one day I'll cross the river, I'll fight life's final war with pain; And then, as death gives way to victory, I'll see the lights of glory--and I'll know He lives|IMS-97
english|Blessed Redeemer||Up Calv'ry's mountain, one dreadful morn, Walked Christ my Savior, weary and worn, Facing for sinner death on the cross That He might save them from endless loss. Blessed Redeemer, precious Redeemer! Seems now I see Him on Calvary's tree, Wounded and bleeding, for sinners pleading-- Blind and unheeding--dying for me Father, forgive them!" thus did He pray, E'en while His life-blood flowed fast away, Praying for sinners while in such woe-- No one but Jesus ever loved so. O how I love Him, Savior and frind! How can my praises ever find end! Thru years unnumbered on heaven's shore, My tongue shall praise Him forever more.|IMS-98
english|The Love of God||The love of God is greater far Than tongue or pen can ever tell, It goes beyond the highest star And reaches to the lowest hell; The guilty pair, bowed down with care, God gave His Son to win: His erring child He reconciled And pardoned from his sin O love of God, how rich and pure! How measureless and strong! It shall for evermore endure The saints' and angels' song. When years of time shall pass away And earthly thrones and kingdoms fall, When men, who here refuse to pray, On rocks and hills and mountains call, God's love so sure shall still endure, All measureless and strong: Redeeming grace to Adam's race The saints' and angels' song. Could we with ink the ocean fill And were the skies of parchment made, Were ev'ry stalk on earth a quill And ev'ry man a scribe by trade, To write the love of God above Would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole Tho stretched from sky to sky.|IMS-99
english|Ive Got A River Of Life||Ive got a river of life Flowing out of me Makes the lame to walk And the blind to see Opens prison doors Sets the captives free I've got a river of life Flowing out of me Spring up O well (Psh Psh Psh Psh) Within my soul Spring up O well (Splish, Splash) And make me whole Spring up O well (Whooosh!) And give to me That life abundantly|IMS-100
english|I Am A C||I am a C I am a C H I am a C H R I S T I A N If I have C H R I S T In my H E A R T Then I will L I V E E T E R N A L L Y|IMS-101
english|Peace Like A River||I've got peace like a river I've got peace like a river I've got peace like a river In my soul I've got joy like a fountain I've got joy like a fountain I've got joy like a fountain In my soul I've got love like a ocean I've got love like a ocean I've got love like a ocean In my soul I've got peace like a river I've got joy like a fountain I've got love like a ocean In my soul|IMS-102
english|Trust And Obey||When we walk with the Lord In the light of His word What a glory He sheds on our way While we do His good will He abides with us still And with all who will trust and obey Trust and obey For there's no other way To be happy in Jesus But to trust and obey Not a shadow can rise Not a cloud in the skies But His smile quickly drives it away Not a doubt or a fear Not a sigh nor a tear Can abide while we trust and obey Trust and obey For there's no other way To be happy in Jesus But to trust and obey|IMS-103
english|Little By Little||Little by little every day Little by little in every way Jesus is changing me Since I made a turn-about face I've been growing in His grace Jesus is changing me He's changing me My precious Jesus I'm not the same person that I used to be Sometimes it's slow going But there's a knowing That some day, perfect I will be|IMS-104
english|Lord I Lift Your Name On High||Lord, I lift Your Name on high, Lord, I love to sing Your praises; I'm so glad You're in my life, I'm so glad you came to save us. You came from heaven to earth to show the way, From the earth to the cross my debt to pay; From the cross to the grave, From the grave to the sky, Lord, I lift Your Name on high.|IMS-105
english|I Will Obey||I will obey the first time I'm told I will obey right away Never asking why Never with a sigh I will obey right away|IMS-106
english|Safe Am I||Safe am I (Safe am I) Safe am I (Safe am I) In the hollow of His hand Sheltered o'er (Sheltered o'er) Sheltered o'er (Sheltered o'er) With His love forevermore No ill can harm me No foe alarm me For He keeps both day and night Safe am I (Safe am I) Safe am I (Safe am I) In the hollow of His hand.|IMS-107
english|Gone, Gone, Gone, Gone||Gone, Gone, Gone, Gone! Yes my sins are gone. Now my soul is free and in my heart's a song. Buried in the deepest sea, Yes, that's good enough for me. I shall live eternally Praise God! My sins are gone!|IMS-108
english|All Because of Calvary||All my sins are gone (echo) All because of Calvary Life is filled with song (echo) All because of Calvary Chirst my Savior lives (echo) Lives from sin to set me free Some day He's coming O wondrous, blessed day All, yes, all because of Calvary|IMS-109
english|After All He's Done For Me||After all He's done for me After all He's done for me How can I do less than give Him my best And live for Him completely After all He's done for me|IMS-110
english|Sweeter Than The Day Before||Ev'ry day with Jesus Is sweeter than the day before Ev'ry day with Jesus I love Him more and more Jesus saves and keeps me And He's the One I'm waiting for Ev'ry day with Jesus Is sweeter than the day before|IMS-111
english|O Praise The Lord For Another Day||O praise the Lord for another day of light! O praise the Lord for His promises are bright I will praise the Lord with heart and soul and might And give Him glory, glory, glory from morn 'til night.|IMS-112
english|God Can Do Anything||God can do anything, anything, anything God can do anything but fail He's the Alpha and Omega The beginning and the end He's the fairest of ten-thousand to my soul God can do anything, anything, anything God can do anything but fail He can save, He can keep, He can cleanse, and He will God can do anything but fail He's the Alpha and Omega The beginning and the end He's the fairest of ten-thousand to my soul God can do anything, anything, anything God can do anything but fail|IMS-113
english|Jesus Is All The World||Jesus is all the world to me He saves and keeps eternally He's the Rock of Ages on the stormy sea.|IMS-114
english|Twelve Men Went To Spy On Canaan||Twelve men went to spy on canaan Ten were bad Two were good What did they see when they spied on canaan? Ten were bad Two were good Some saw giants tough and tall Some saw grapes in clusters fall Some saw God was in it all Ten were bad Two were good|IMS-115
english|His Sheep Am I||In God's green pastures feeding By His cool waters lie Soft in the evening walk my Lord and I All the sheep of His pasture Fair so wonderously fine His Sheep Am I Waters cool, ... In the valley Pastures green, ... On the mountain In the eve ... In the evening Walk my Lord and I Dark the night, ... In the valley Rough the way, ... On the mountain Step by step, ... Step by step My Lord and I Yes the Lord is my Shepherd And no want shall I know He'll guide and comfort me Where'er I go On the mount, in the valley By His hands He will lead His sheep am I Waters cool, ... In the valley Pastures green, ... On the mountain In the eve ... In the evening Walk my Lord and I Dark the night, ... In the valley Rough the way, ... On the mountain Step by step, ... Step by step My Lord and I|IMS-116
english|Hungry||Hungry I come to You, For I know You satisfy. I am empty but I know Your love does not run dry. And so I wait for You...so I wait for You. I'm falling on my knees, Offering all of me Jesus You're all this heart is living for. Broken I run to You For Your arms are open wide. I am weary but I know Your touch restores my life. And so I wait for You...so I wait for You. I'm falling on my knees, Offering all of me Jesus You're all this heart is living for.|IMS-117
english|Blessed Be The Lord God Almighty||Father in heaven how we love you We lift Your name in all the earth May Your kingdom be established in our praises As Your people declare your mighty works Blessed be the Lord God Almighty Who was and is and is to come Blessed be the Lord God Almighty Who reigns forevermore Oh God most holy we adore You We lay our all before Your throne May the fragrance of Your presence be about us As we purpose to worship You alone Blessed be the Lord God Almighty Who was and is and is to come Blessed be the Lord God Almighty Who reigns forevermore|IMS-118
english|Draw Me Close||Draw me close to You. Never let me go. I lay it all down again To hear You say that I'm your friend You are my desire, No one else will do Cause nothing else could take Your place To feel the warmth of Your embrace. Help me find the way, bring me back to You. You're all I want. You're all I ever needed. You're all I want. Help me know You are near.|IMS-119
english|Unchanging||Great is Your faithfulness Great is Your faithfulness You never change, You never fail, O God. True are Your promises, (echo) True are Your promises, (echo) You never change, You never fail, O God. So we raise up holy hands To praise the Holy One, Who was and is and is to come. Yeah, we raise up holy hands To praise the Holy One, Who was and is and is to come. Wide is Your love and grace, (echo) Wide is Your love and grace, (echo) You never change, You never fail, O God. You were, You are, You will always be|IMS-120
english|Lord You Have My Heart||Lord You have my heart, And I will search for Yours; Jesus take my life and lead me on. Lord You have my heart, And I will search for Yours; Let me be to You a sacrifice. And I will praise You, Lord; And I will sing of love come down; And as You show Your face, We'll see Your glory here|IMS-121
english|Draw Me Close||Draw me close to You, Never let me go. I lay it all down again, To hear You say that I'm Your friend. You are my desire, No one else will do, 'Cause nothing else could take Your place. To feel the warmth of Your embrace, Help me find the way, Bring me back to You. You're all I want, You're all I've ever needed. You're all I want, Help me know You are near.|IMS-122
english|I Could Sing Of Your Love Forever||Over the mountains and the sea, Your river runs with love for me; And I will open up my heart , And let the healer set me free. I'm happy to be in the truth, And I will daily lift my hands, For I will always sing Of when Your love came down. I could sing of Your love forever. Oh I feel like dancing, It's foolishness I know. But when the world has seen the light, They will dance with joy like we're dancing now.|IMS-123
english|Romans 8:15||For you have not received A spirit of slavery Leading to fear again, For you have not received A spirit of slavery Leading to fear again, But you have received A spirit of adoption as sons By which we cry out, But you have received A spirit of adoption as sons By which we cry out, Abba, Father, Abba, Father, Abba, Father, Abba, Father.|IMS-124
english|We Bow Down||We bow down, We lay our crowns, at the feet of Jesus. --The greatness of His mercy and love at the feet of Jesus. and we cry, "Holy, holy, holy." We cry, "Holy, holy, holy!" We cry, "Holy, holy, holy is the lamb." Holy, holy, holy is the lamb.""|IMS-125
english|Make Me Like You||With mercy You've shown me Your unfailing love Your holiness purges my sin Your blood has redeemed me, I'm washed in Your grace With patience You cleanse me within Make me, like You; Take the pieces of my life and make it new. Make me like you; Make me wholly completely brand new. To love the unloved ones, to count all but loss I take up my cross for You. To picture You broken, to see You as King, For You I will do anything.|IMS-126
english|God Of Wonders||Lord of all creation Of water earth and sky The heavens are Your tabernacle Glory to the Lord on high God of wonders beyond our galaxy You are holy, holy The universe declares Your majesty You are holy, holy Lord of heaven and earth Lord of heaven and earth Early in the morning I will celebrate the light When I stumble in the darkness I will call Your name by night. God of wonders beyond our galaxy You are holy, holy The universe declares Your majesty You are holy, holy Lord of heaven and earth Lord of heaven and earth Hallelujah to the Lord of heaven and earth. Hallelujah to the Lord of heaven and earth. Hallelujah to the Lord of heaven and earth. God of wonders beyond our galaxy You are holy, holy The universe declares Your majesty You are holy, holy|IMS-127
english|Our God||Water you turned into wine opened the eyes of the blind there's no one like you none like you Into the darkness you shine out of the ashes we rise there is no one like you none like you Our God is greater Our God is stronger God you are higher than any other Our God is Healer Awesome in power Our God, Our God and if our God is for us then who could ever stop us and if our God is with us then what could stand against|IMS-128
english|Eagles Wings||Here I am waiting Abide in me I pray Here I am longing for You Hide me in Your love Bring me to my knees May I know Jesus more and more Come live in me All my life take over Come breathe in me I will rise On eagles wings.|IMS-129
navajo|Jesus Al11h !n0olnin|w/ Navajo||Fairest Lord Jesus. Ruler of all nature. O Thou of God and man the Son. Thee will I cherish, Thee will I honor, Thou my soul's glory, joy, and crown! Tiis danizhn, Hootsonizhn,  aynolnin nidi, Christjgo alh, Jesus nitl, Yn biid66 b bee hashtaa. Fair is the sunshine, Fairer still the moonlight, and all the twinkling starry host: Jesus shines brighter, Jesus shines purer than all the angels heav'n can boast. Kyahtt Beenhlnihii, God biye dinsil98ii bee Baa haniihii, Tsd tt Kad d hoolgbdoolee.|IMS-130
english|The Voice of Adonai||The voice of Adonai, over rushing waters. The voice of Adonai, like the mighty thunder. The voice of Adonai, with power and splendor. The voice of Adonai. The voice of Adonai. And while in His temple, we cry out glory. And while in His temple, we cry glory. The voice of Adonai, cracks the cedars open. The voice of Adonai, strikes the fiery lightning. The voice of Adonai, will shake the desert ground. The voice of Adonai. The voice of Adonai. May Adonai give strength to His people And we'll shout to Him glory. May Adonai bless peace to His people And sing praise to Him glory! Glory!|IMS-131
english|Stars||You spoke a word and life began Told oceans where to start and where to end You set in motion time and space But still you come and you call to me by name Still you come and you call to me by name If you can hold the stars in place You can hold my heart the same Whenever I fall away Whenever I start to break So here I am, lifting up my heart To the one who holds the stars The deepest depths, the darkest nights Can't separate, can't keep me from your sight I get so lost, forget my way But still you love and you don't forget my name If you can hold the stars in place You can hold my heart the same Whenever I fall away Whenever I start to break So here I am, lifting up my heart If you can calm the raging sea You can calm the storm in me You're never too far away You never show up too late So here I am, lifting up my heart To the one who holds the stars Your love has called my name What do I have to fear? What do I have to fear? Your love has called my name What do I have to fear? What do I have to fear? If you can hold the stars in place You can hold my heart the same Whenever I fall away Whenever I start to break So here I am, lifting up my heart If you can calm the raging sea You can calm the storm in me You're never too far away You never show up too late So here I am, lifting up my heart To the one who holds the stars You're the one who holds the stars|IMS-132
english|O Praise the Name||I cast my mind to Calvary Where Jesus bled and died for me. I see His wounds,His hands, His feet. My Saviour on that cursed tree His body bound and drenched in tears They laid Him down in Joseph's tomb. The entrance sealed by heavy stone Messiah still and all alone O praise the name of the Lord our God O praise His name forever more For endless days we will sing Your praise Oh Lord, oh Lord our God And on the third at break of dawn, The Son of heaven rose again. O trampled death where is your sting? The angels roar for Christ the King He shall return in robes of white, The blazing Son shall pierce the night. And I will rise among the saints, My gaze transfixed on Jesus' face O praise the name of the Lord our God O praise His name forever more For endless days we will sing Your praise Oh Lord, oh Lord our God Oh Lord, oh Lord our God Oh Lord, oh Lord our God|IMS-133
navajo|He Lives!|w/Navajo||I serve a risen Savior, He's in the world today; I know that He is living, whatever men may say; I see His hand of mercy, I hear His voice of cheer, and just the time I need Him He's always near. He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today! He walks with me and talks with me Along life's narrow way. He lives, He lives, salvation to impart! You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart Jesus hinaah nasdliiii ei kad ba hinishna, Shi beehozingo Jesus Christ taaaanii hina. Bizaad chanah ashosin, bila yee shaa jooba, Shide ahootiihgo shika a nalwo. Hina, Hina, Christ Jesus kad hina! Shi tadiaash, Shichi yati, Atsoozi honitigoo. Hina, Hina, bee yisdanaiildeeh! Haaiteegosha shi beehozin? Shijei biidi hina. Rejoice, rejoice, O Christian, Lift up your voice and sing Eternal hallelujahs To Jesus Christ the King! The hope of all who seek Him, The help of all who find, None other is so loving, So good and kind. Daiinohdlanigii, Jesus bichi dahohtaa, Christ Jesus ei Naataanii hoolaagoo baa haniih! Hasih bidin hoyeegi aka analwoii Taa biteiya akoteego aa jooba.|IMS-134
english|Love||Love the Lord, your God, with all your heart And all your soul and all your mind And love all mankind as you would love yourself. And love the Lord your God with all your heart And all your soul and mind And love all mankind. We've got Christian lives to live We've got Jesus' love to give We've got nothing to hide Because in Him we abide.|IMS-135
english|Hallelujah, Praise Ye the Lord||Hallelu, Hallelu, Hallelu, Hallelujah Praise ye the Lord! Hallelu, Hallelu, Hallelu, Hallelujah Praise ye the Lord! Praise ye the Lord! Hallelujah! Praise ye the Lord! Hallelujah! Praise ye the Lord! Hallelujah! Praise ye the Lord!|IMS-136
english|Just Let Me Say||Just let me say how much I love You Let me speak of your mercy and grace Just let me live in the shadow of your beauty Let me see You face to face And the earth will shake as your Word goes forth And the heavens can tremble and fall But let me say how much I love You, O my Savior, my Lord and Friend Just let me hear your finest whispers As you gently call my name And let me see your power and your glory Let me feel your Spirit's flame Let me find you in the desert Til this sand is holy ground And I am found completely surrendered To you, my Lord and Friend. So let me say how much I love you With all my heart I long for you For I am caught in this passion of knowing This endless love I've found in you And the depth of grace, the forgiveness found, To be called a child of God Just makes me say how much I love you, O my Savior, my Lord and Friend Just makes me say how much I love you, O my Savior, my Lord and Friend.|IMS-137
english|Revelation Song||Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. Holy, holy is He. Sing a new song to Him Who sits on Heaven's Mercy Seat. Holy, Holy, Holy Is the Lord, God Almighty. Who was and is and is to come. With all creation I sing, Praise to the King of Kings, You are my everything, And I will adore You" Clothed in rainbows,of living color, Flashes of lightning, rolls of thunder. Blessing and honor, strength and glory And power be, To You, the only wise King. Filled with wonder, awestruck wonder, At the mention of Your name. Jesus, Your name is power, Breath and living water. Such a marvelous mystery.|IMS-138
english|Finally Be Strong||Finally be strong in the Lord And in the strength of His might Put on the full armor of God So that you will be able to stand firm Against the schemes of the devil For our struggle Is not against flesh and blood But against the rulers Against the powers Against the world forces Of this darkness Against the spiritual forces Of wickedness in the Heavenly Places|IMS-139
english|Not What My Hands||Not what my hands have done Can save my guilty soul Not what my toiling flesh has borne, Can make my spirit whole Not what I feel or do, Can give me peace with God; Not all my prayers and sighs and tears Can bear my awful load. These guilty hands are raised, Am Gsus Filthy rags are all I bring And I have come, to hide Beneath your wings These holy hands are raised, Washed in the fountain of your grace And now I wear your righteousness. Thy work alone, Oh Christ, Can ease this weight of sin. Thy blood alone, Oh Lamb of God, Can give me peace within. Thy love to me, Oh God, Not mine Oh Lord to Thee Can rid me of this dark unrest And set my spirit free. Thy grace alone Oh God To me can pardon speak Thy power alone Oh Lamb of God Can this sore bondage break No other work save Thine No other blood will do No strength but that which is divine Can bear me safely through I praise the God of grace; I trust his truth and might, He calls me His, I call Him mine My God, My Joy, My Light. My Lord has saved my life And freely pardon gives; I love because He first loved me I live because He lives.|IMS-140
english|Great and Wonderful||Great and wonderful are Thy wondrous deeds O Lord God, the Almighty Just and true are all Thy ways, O Lord; King of the ages art Thou. Who shall not fear and glorify Thy name, O Lord? For Thou alone art holy Thou alone All the nations shall come and worship Thee, For Thy glory shall be revealed. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Amen. La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la.|IMS-141
english|In the Beginning||In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. In the beginning was the Word. The Word of God became a man, He was the Son of God in the form of man, the Word of God became a man. The ones He came to, received Him not, but as many as received Him to them gave He power; The ones He came to, received Him not, But as many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name. In the beginning was the Word. and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. In the beginning was the Word. In the beginning was the Word.|IMS-142
english|John 15:13||John fifteen, John fifteen, John fifteen: thirteen, "Greater love, greater love, greater love has no one than this: that one lay down his life for his friends. Greater love has no one than this." "Greater love, greater love, greater love has no one than this: that one lay down his life for his friends. Greater love has no one than this." John fifteen, John fifteen, John fifteen: thirteen.|IMS-143
english|Nobody Else Like Me||There's nobody else like me, there's nobody else like me. I'm not a horse or a hog or a fish or a frog. I'm a human, can't you see? There's nobody else like me, God created me carefully. There's nobody else No, there's nobody else like me. I am an individual created by God's own hand. And He has a special purpose for me, I am part of His wonderful plan. God formed me into a human, I'm not a squirrel or a squid or a skunk. I know He loves me 'cause I'm specially made, God just doesn't make junk.|IMS-144
english|Isaiah 53||They mocked Him and abused Him, And looked the other way. They scourged Him and accused Him; Yet nothing did He say. The ones he loved condemned Him; The Lamb made no reply. He took our sins upon Him. When they led Him away to die. He is the Lamb that God provided; He is the final sacrifice. Oh, He is worthy, praise Jehovah! Praise the Lord, hallelujah! Praise the Lord, Hallelujah! Praise the Lord, Hallelujah!|IMS-145
english|Tree Song||I saw a tree by the riverside one day as I walked along, Straight as an arrow and pointing to the sky, Growing tall and strong. "How do you grow so tall and strong? I said to the riverside tree, This is the song that my tree friend sang to me. I've got roots growing down to the water, I've got leaves growing up to the sunshine, And the fruit that I bear is a sign of the life in me. I am shade from the hot summer sundown, I am nest for the birds of the heaven, I'm becoming what the Lord of the trees has meant me to be, A strong young tree. I saw a tree in the wintertime when snow lay on the ground, Straight as an arrow and pointing to the sky, And winter winds blew all around. 'How do you stay so tall and strong?' I said to the wintertime tree, This is the song that my tree friend sang to me. I saw a tree in the city streets Where buildings blocked the sun, Green and lovely I could see it gave joy to everyone. 'How do you grow in the city streets?' I said to the downtown tree, This is the song that my tree friend sang to me.|IMS-146
english|We Are Marching||We are marching in the light of God We are marching in the light of God We are marching, marching, We are marching, Oh-O, We are marching in the light of God We are living in the love of God We are living in the love of God We are living, living, We are living, Oh-O, We are living in the love of God We are marching in the light of God We are marching in the light of God We are living, living, We are living, Oh-O, We are living in the love of God We are marching, marching, We are marching, Oh-O, We are marching in the light of God|IMS-147
english|Where is He?||Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? For we have come to worship him. We have come to worship him. We have come to worship him. Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? We have seen his star in the east. (echo) We have seen his star in the east. (echo) Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? For we have come to worship him. We have come to worship him. We have come to worship him. Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? Where is he that is born the King of the Jews? O where is he?|IMS-148
english|You knit me together||You knit me together in my mother's womb. You knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, praise you. You knit me together in my mother's womb. Because I am fearfully and wonderfully made, because I am fearfully and wonderfully made I praise you, I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. You knit me together in my mother's womb. You knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, praise you. You knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, I praise you. You knit me together in my mother's womb.|IMS-149
navajo|When I Survey / Open The Eyes|with Navajo||Open the eyes of my heart Lord Open the eyes of my heart I want to see You I want to see You When I survey the wondrous cross On which the Prince of glory died, My richest gain I count but loss, And pour contempt on all my pride. Taadoo bee adaa hoshniihi da, Boholniihii daaztsinee teiya, Haatiida alaahgo ooshniinii Yee baa dinia, shaah taneizgiz Yee ashoniinii doo yinii Ei bidi bi naaliigo yiitsa. Dii tah doo yiiltseeh da ni tee, Ei hosh deeni bi chah ba alyaa. To see You high and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy High and lifted up Shining in the light of Your glory Pour out Your power and love As we sing holy, holy, holy Holy, holy, holy, Holy, holy, holy, Holy, holy, holy, I want to see you Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were an offering far too small: Love so amazing, so divine, Demands my heart, my life, my all.|IMS-150
english|Where the roses never fade||I am going to a city, Where the streets with gold are laid; Where the tree of life is blooming And the roses never fade. Here they bloom but for a season Soon their beauty is decayed. I am going to a city, Where the roses never fade. In this world we have our troubles, Satan snares we must evade. We'll be free from all temptations; Where the roses never fade. Loved ones gone to be with Jesus, In their robes of white arrayed; Now are waiting for my coming, Where the roses never fade.|IMS-151
english|Psalms 20:6-8||Some boast in chariots And some in horses But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God Some boast in Chiefs And some in 49ers But we will boast In the name of the Lord our God Now I know that the Lord Saves His anointed He will answer them From His holy heaven With the saving strength Of His right hand They have bowed down and fallen But we have risen and stood upright.|IMS-152
english|His Mercy is More||What love could remember no wrongs we have done Omniscient, all knowing, he counts not their sum Thrown into a sea without bottom or shore Our sins they are many, his mercy is more What patience would wait as we constantly roam What father, so tender, is calling us home He welcomes the weakest, the vilest, the poor Our sins they are many, his mercy is more What riches of kindness he lavished on us His blood was the payment, his life was the cost We stood 'neath a debt we could never afford Our sins they are many, his mercy is more Praise the Lord His mercy is more Stronger than darkness, new every morn Our sins they are many, his mercy is more|IMS-153
navajo|Haala ayoo Diyin ||Doolado Nizhoni da Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin Jesus ayoo Diyin Doolado Nizhoni da Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin Jesus yisdashiiti Doolado Nizhoni da Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin Jesus ei nashiidzii Doolado Nizhoni da Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin Jesus ayoo shikis taa iiyisi ei shikis Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin Jesus ei Baa hashniih Taa ei tei Baa hashniih Haala, haala, ayoo Diyin|IMS-154
english|My Tribute||How can I say thanks For the things You have done for me Things so underserved, Yet You give to prove Your love for me? The voices of a millions angels Could not express my gratitude All that I am and ever hope to be, I owe it all to Thee. To God be the glory, to God be the glory, To God be the glory For the things He has done! With His blood He has saved me, With His pow'r He has raised me To God be the glory For the things He has done! Just let me live my life Let it be pleasing, Lord, to Thee; And should I gain any praise, Let it go to Calvary.|IMS-155
english|This Little Light of Mine||This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine, This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Hide it under a bushel, NO! I'm gonna let it shine. Hide it under a bushel, NO! I'm gonna let it shine. Hide it under a bushel, NO! I'm gonna let it shine, Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Won't let Satan blow it out. I'm gonna let it shine. Won't let Satan blow it out. I'm gonna let it shine. Won't let Satan blow it out. I'm gonna let it shine, Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Shine all over Sweetwater, I'm gonna let it shine. Shine all over Sweetwater, I'm gonna let it shine. Shine all over Sweetwater, I'm gonna let it shine, Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Let it shine 'til Jesus comes, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine 'til Jesus comes, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine 'til Jesus comes, I'm gonna let it shine, Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine, This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine.|IMS-156
english|Jesus, Lover of My Soul||Jesus, lover of my soul Jesus, You will never let me go You've taken me from the miry clay Set my feet upon a rock, now I know I love you, I need you, Though my world may fall You'll never let me go My Savior, my closest friend I will worship you until the very end.|IMS-157
english|We Fall Down||We fall down we lay our crowns At the feet of Jesus The greatness of mercy and love At the feet of Jesus And we cry holy, holy, holy, And we cry holy, holy, holy, And we cry holy, holy, holy Is the Lamb. Holy, holy, holy is the Lamb.|IMS-159
english|El Yon|Most High||You- are the Lord Most High! You- are an awesome God! You- are the mighty King! You- are over everything! El Yon, El Yon, El Yon, El Yon You- went up with a shout You- sound the shofar out! You- we sing praises to! You- King of all the earth! You- reign in all of us! You- on You Holy Throne. You- we exalt on high! You- we cry out, "Adonai!"|IMS-160
english|V'ne-emar|Zechariah 14:9||V'ne-emar v'haya Adonai L'melech al kol ha-aretz V'ne-emar v'haya Adonia L'melech al kol ha-aretz Bayom ha-hu Yih'ye Adonai echad Yih'ye Adonai echad Yih'ye Adonai echad Ush'mo, ush'mo, ush'mo, ush'mo Ush'mo, ush'mo, echad|IMS-161
english|Yeshua Mashiach||Yeshua, Yeshua Mashiach Yeshua, Yeshua Mashiach Adonai's one and only Son Restores the sight so the blind will see. He heals the lame so they walk again. He have His life for you and me. Daughter of Tziyon be not afraid Your King has come for you and me. He gave the root to the olive tree. Jew and Gentile now are free. So, now we wait for the latter days When Yeshua will take His bride To a new Heaven and a new earth Where's God's Sh'kinah will reside|IMS-162
english|It Is You||As we lift up our hands Will you meet us here? As we call on Your name Will you meet us here? We have come to this place To worship You God of mercy and grace It is You we adore, It is You praises are for Only You the heavens declare It is You, it is You And Holy Holy is our God Almighty And Holy Holy is His name alone And Holy Holy is our God Almighty And Holy Holy is His name alone It is you we adore It is You, only You As we lift up our hands As we call on Your name Will You visit this place By Your mercy and grace?|IMS-163
english|Who You Are||Shine Your light Into the dark Speak Your truth Into my heart I want to know who You are Open my eyes, so I can see You Open my ears, so I can hear You I give my hear to You, Lord I want to know who You are I want to know who You are Please show me Open my eyes, Lord|IMS-164
english|Freedom||Where the Spirit of the Lord is, There is freedom. There is peace, There is love, There is joy. It is for freedom You've set us free It is for freedom You've set us free I'm free, I'm free, I'm free, I'm free. So we will walk in Your freedom, Walk in liberty. We will dance in Your freedom, Dance in Your liberty.|IMS-165
english|To Him Are All Things|Romans 11:33-36||O the depth of the riches, And His wisdom and His knowledge. How unsearchable His judgements! How unsearchable are His ways! For from Him, and through Him And to Him are all things For from Him, and through Him And to Him are all things Are all things Who knows the mind of Adonai? Who's ever been His counselor? Who ever gave Him anything, And made the Lord repay it back? To Him be the glory! To Him be the glory! To Him be the glory forever! To Him be the glory! To Him be the glory! To Him be the glory forever! Forever and ever!|IMS-166
english|Sabbath Prayer||May the Lord protect and defend you, May he always shield you from shame May you come to be in Yisrael a shining name. May you be like Ruth and like David, May you be deserving of praise, Strengthen us, oh Lord, And keep us in Messiah's ways. May God bless you and grant you long life, May God make you good husbands and wives, May the Lord protect and defend you, May the Lord preserve you from pain Favor us, oh Lord, with happiness and peace, Oh hear our Sabbath prayer. Amen.|IMS-167
english|Our Father||Hear our prayer We are your children And we've gathered here today We've gathered here to pray Hear our cry Lord we need Your mercy And we need You peace today Hear us as we pray Our Father, Who art in Heaven Hallowed be Thy name Our Father Hear us from Heaven Forgive our sins we pray Hear our song, As it rises to heaven May Your glory fill the earth As the waters cover the sea See our hearts And remove anything That is standing in the way Of coming to to You today And though we are few We're sorrounded by many Who have crossed that river before And this is the song We'll be singing forever Holy is the Lord Holy is the Lord Holy is the Lord Holy is the Lord|IMS-168
english|Sar-Shalom||Ohhh wonderful, Ohhh Counselor, Ohhh Mighty God Eternal Father, Prince of Peace, Sar-Shalom Pele-Yo-etz, Ell Gibbor, Avi-'Ad, Sar-Shalom, Sar-Shalom, Prince of Peace, Sar-Shalom Prince of Peace, Sar-Shalom Sar-Shalom, Sar-Shalom Sar-Shalom, Sar-Shalom|IMS-169
english|Many and Great, O God||Many and great, O God, are Your works, Maker of earth and sky. Your hands have set the heavens with stars; Your fingers spread the mountains and plains. Lo, at Your word the waters were formed; Deep seas obey Your voice. Grant unto us communion with You, O star-abiding One. Come unto us and dwell with us; With You are found the gifts of life. Bless us with life that has no end, Eternal life with You.|IMS-170
english|I Want Jesus To Walk With Me||I want Jesus to walk with me. I want Jesus to walk with me. All along my pilgrim journey, Lord, I want Jesus to walk with me. In my trials, Lord, walk with me. In my trials, Lord walk with me. When my heart is almost breaking, Lord, I want Jesus to walk with me. When I'm in trouble, Lord, walk with me. When I'm in trouble, Lord, walk with me. When my head is bowed in sorrow, Lord, I want Jesus to walk with me.|IMS-171
english|Awake, Arise, O Sing A New Song||Awake, arise Awake, arise, O sing a new song Of joy and celebration. A new day has come, Bring praise to the Son of God, of God.|IMS-172
english|Come and See||Come and see, come and see, I am the way and the truth," said He. Follow me, follow me. Come as a child, O come and see." Kyrie, kyrie, (ki dee ay) Kyrie, eleison. (ay lay ee son) Christe, Christe, (Kdee stay) Christe eleison. Christe, Christe, Adoramus te (ah doe rah moo stay) Alleluia, (ah lay loo yah) Kyrie, eleison.|IMS-173
english|Je Louerai l'Eternel||Je louerai l'Eternel (zhu loo ray lay tair nel) De tout mon coeur, (day toot moan cure) Je raconterai (zhu rah con tu ray) Toutes tes merveilles, (toot tay tay mairvyay) Je chanterai ton nom. (zhu shan tairay tone nome) Je louerai l'Eternel (zhu loo ray lay tair nel) De tout mon coeur, (day toot moan cure) Je ferai de toi (zhu fairay day twa) Le sujet de ma joie. (lay soozhay day ma zhwee) Alleluia! Praise, I will praise you, lord, With all my heart. O God, I will tell The wonders of your ways, And glorify your name. Praise, I will praise you, Lord, With all my heart. In you will I find The source of all my joy. Alleluia! Love, I will love you, lord, With all my heart. O God, I will tell The wonders of your ways, And glorify your name. Praise, I will praise you, Lord, With all my heart. In you will I find The source of all my joy. Alleluia! Serve, I will serve you, Lord, With all my heart. O God, I will tell The wonders of your ways, And glorify your name. Praise, I will praise you, Lord, With all my heart. In you will I find The source of all my joy. Alleluia!|IMS-174
english|Lets Sing Unto the Lord||Cantemos al Seor Un himno dea-le-gr-a, Un cntico dea mor Al na ser el nue vo da. El hi zoel cie loel mar, El sol y las estrellas Y vien e llos bondad, Pues sus o bras e ran bellas. Aleluya! Aleluya! Cantemos al Seor. Aleluya! Cantemos al Seor Un himno de alebanza Que exprese nuestro amor, Nuestra fey nuestra esperanza. En toda la creacion Pregona su grandeza, As' nuestro cantar Va anunciando su belleza. Lets sing unto the Lord A hymn of glad rejoicing. Lets sing a hymn of love, Joining hearts and happy voices. God made the sky above, The stars, the sun, the oceans. Their goodness does proclaim The glory of God's name. Allelujah, Allelujah Let's sing unto the Lord. Allelujah! Let's sing unto the Lord A hymn of adoration, Express unto the Lord Our songs of faith and hope. Creation's broad display Proclaims the work of grandeur, The boundless love of One Who blesses us with beauty.|IMS-175
english|Sent forth by God's blessing||Sent forth by God's blessing, our true faith confessing the people of God from this dwelling take leave. The supper is ended, Oh now be extended the Fruits of this service in all who believe The fruit of Christ's teaching receptive souls reaching Shall blossom in action for God and for all. His grace did invite us, His love shall unite us To work for God's kingdom And answer his call With praise and thanksgiving To God ever living The tasks of our everyday Life we will face. Our faith ever sharing In love ever caring Embracing the children Of each tribe and race. With your feast you feed us, With your light now lead us Unite us in one In this life that we share Then may all the living With praise and thanksgiving Give honor to Christ And his name that we bear.|IMS-176
english|The Wonderful Cross||When I survey the wondrous cross On which the Prince of Glory died, My richest gain I count but loss, And pour contempt on all my pride. See from His head, His hands, His Feet, Sorrow and love flow mingled down; Did eer such love and sorrow meet, Or thorns compose so rich a crown? Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were an offering far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, Demands my soul, my life, my all. O the wonderful cross, O the wonderful cross Bids me come and die And find that I May truly live, O the wonderful cross, O the wonderful cross; All who gather here By grace draw near And bless Your name.|IMS-177
navajo|At The Cross|w/Navajo||Alas, and did my Savior bleed? And did my Sovereign die? Would He devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? Christ bitsin 'agi ts adidn yiits, Shij Bee nidaaziiy'eeldogo !kwe' ookl Bee shi hoozin, K'ad sh shi hzh t' kw j! Was it for crimes that I have done, He groaned upon the tree? amazing pity! grace unknown! And love beyond degree! Well might the sun in darkness hide, and shut his glories in, when Christ the mighty Maker, died for man the creature's, sin. But drops of grief can ne'er repay the debt of love I owe: here, Lord, I give myself away, tis all that I can do!|IMS-179
english|Arise||One thing we ask of you One thing that we desire That as we worship you Lord come and fill our lives Arise, Arise, Arise, Arise Arise, take your place Be enthroned on our praise Arise, king of kings Holy God as we sing Arise, Arise We lift you up, we lift you up, We lift you up on our praises;|IMS-180
english|Offering||The sun cannot compare To the glory of Your love There is no shadow in Your Presence No mortal man would dare To stand before Your throne Before the Holy One of heaven It's only by Your Blood And it's only through you mercy Lord I come I bring an offering of worship to my King No one on earth deserves the praises that I sing Jesus may You receive the honor that You're due O Lord I bring an offering to You I bring an offering to You O Lord I bring an offering to You O Lord I bring an offering to You I bring an offering to You|IMS-181
english|Days of Elijah||These are the days of Elijah, Declaring the Word of the Lord And these are the days of Your servant, Moses, Righteousness being restored And though these are days of great trials, Of famine and darkness and sword Still we are the voice in the desert, crying, Prepare ye the way of the Lord!" Behold, He comes riding on the clouds Shining like the sun, at the trumpet call Lift your voice, it's the year of jubilee And out of Zion's hill salvation comes These are the days of Ezekiel, The dry bones becoming as flesh And these are the days of Your servant, David, Rebuilding a temple of praise These are the days of the harvest, The fields are as white in the world And we are the laborers in Your vineyard, Declaring the Word of the Lord. There is no god like Jehovah,|IMS-182
english|Praise Adonai||Who is like Him The Lion and the Lamb Seated on the throne Mountains bow down Every ocean roars To the Lord of hosts Praise Adonai From the rising of the sun 'Til the end of every day Praise Adonai All the nations of the earth All the angels and the saints Sing praise|IMS-183
english|Agnus Dei||Alleluia, alleluia For our Lord God almighty reigns Alleluia, alleluia For our Lord God almighty reigns Alleluia Holy, holy are you Lord God almighty Worthy is the lamb Worthy is the lamb You are holy, holy are you Lord God almighty Worthy is the lamb Worthy is the lamb Amen|IMS-184
english|I Surrender All||All to Jesus I surrender; all to him I freely give; I will ever love and trust him, in his presence daily live. All to Jesus I surrender; humbly at his feet I bow, worldly pleasures all forsaken; take me, Jesus, take me now. I surrender all, I surrender all, all to thee, my blessed Savior, I surrender all. All to Jesus I surrender; make me, Savior, wholly thine; let me feel thy Holy Spirit, truly know that thou art mine. All to Jesus I surrender; all to him I freely give; I will ever love and trust him, in his presence daily live.|IMS-185
english|Rescue||You are the source of life I can't be left behind No one else will do I will take hold of You Cause I need You Jesus, To come to my rescue Where else can I go? There's no other name By which I am saved Capture me with grace I will follow You (echo) I will follow You (echo) My heart is yours for life, I need your hand in mine, No one else will do; I put my trust in You. This world has nothing for me I will follow You This world has nothing for me This world has nothing for me This world has nothing for me This world has nothing for me I will follow You|IMS-186
english|He's Always Been Faithful||Morning by morning I wake up to find The power and comfort of God's hand in mine Season by season I watch Him, amazed In awe of the mystery of His perfect ways All I'm in need of, His hand will provide He's always been faithful to me I can't remember a trial or a pain He did not recycle to bring me gain I can't remember one single regret In serving God only, and trusting His hand All I'm in need of, His hand will provide He's always been faithful to me This is my anthem, this is my song The theme of the stories I've heard for so long God has been faithful, He will be again His loving compassion, it knows no end All I'm in need of His hand will provide He's always been faithful, He's always been faithful He's always been faithful to me.|IMS-187
navajo|Nothing But The Blood||What can wash away my sin. Nothing but the blood of Jesus; what can make me whole again. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh! Precious is the flow that makes me white as snow; no other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Sha't'e' bik' ninly, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Bee shich'' hzh nhsdl'. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgizii,T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn. Nothing can for sin atone nothing but the blood of Jesus; naught of good that I have done nothing but the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy T''ahj' bee hinisha, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy $id bee y'aashg dy.|IMS-188
english|There is a Friend||There is a friend, A friend who sticks, Closer than a brother. An F-R-I-E-N-D who sticks Closer than a B-R-O-T-H-E-R Closer than a brother. There is a friend, A friend who sticks, Closer than a brother. Closer than a brother.|IMS-190
english|Let the Little Children Come||Let the little children come, Let the little children come, Let the little children come to me. And do not forbid them, Do not forbid them For of such is the Kingdom of heaven.|IMS-191
english|Our Father in Heaven||Our Father, in heaven, Hallowed be Your name, Your kingdom come, Your will be done On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread And forgive us our debts As we forgive our debtors And do not lead us into temptation. But deliver us from the evil one, For yours is the kingdom And the power and the glory Forever. Our Father, in heaven, Hallowed be your name.|IMS-192
english|Hosanna!||Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna to the Son of David, Hosanna in the highest. Hosanna to the Son of David, Hosanna! This is Jesus. Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is He Who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna to the Son of David, Hosanna in the highest. Hosanna to the Son of David, Hosanna! This is Jesus. Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna! This is Jesus.|IMS-193
english|Come, O Holy Spirit, Come||Come, O Holy Spirit, come, Come, almighty Spirit, come Come, come, come.|IMS-194
english|Blessed Be the Lord||Blessed be the Lord, who Daily bears us up. Our God himself is our Salvation. Bless His holy name! Our God is a God of salvation; So Bless His holy name. To God the Lord belongs escape from death. Bless His holy name! Bless His holy name! Bless His holy name!|IMS-195
english|All I Know||Though I feel afraid Of territory unknown, I know that I can say That I do not stand alone. For Jesus, You have promised Your presence in my heart; I cannot see the ending, But it's here that I must start. And all I know is You have called me, And that I will follow Is all I can say. I will go Where You will send me And Your fire lights my way. What lies across the waves May cause my heart to fear; Will I survive the day, Must I leave what's known and dear? A ship that's in the harbor Is still and safe from harm; But it was not built to be there, It was made for wind and storm. And all I know is You have called me, And that I will follow Is all I can say. I will go Where You will send me And Your fire lights my way, Your fire lights my way.|IMS-196
english|Come, O Holy Spirit, Come||Come, O Holy Spirit, Come, Come, almighty Spirit, come, Come, come, come.|IMS-197
english|1 Peter||Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To Gods elect, exiles scattered throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, to be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood: Grace and peace be yours in abundance. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! In his great mercy he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade. This inheritance is kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by Gods power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In all this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that the proven genuineness of your faithof greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by firemay result in praise, glory and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you have not seen him, you love him; and even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy, for you are receiving the end result of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Concerning this salvation, the prophets, who spoke of the grace that was to come to you, searched intently and with the greatest care, trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when he predicted the sufferings of the Messiah and the glories that would follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been told you by those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things. Since you call on a Father who judges each persons work impartially, live out your time as foreigners here in reverent fear. For you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors, 19 but with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect. He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake. Through him you believe in God, who raised him from the dead and glorified him, and so your faith and hope are in God. Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for each other, love one another deeply, from the heart. For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God. For, All people are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field; the grass withers and the flowers fall, but the word of the Lord endures forever. And this is the word that was preached to you. Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind. Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk, so that by it you may grow up in your salvation, now that you have tasted that the Lord is good. As you come to him, the living Stonerejected by humans but chosen by God and precious to him you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house[a] to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says: See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and, A stone that causes people to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the messagewhich is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, Gods special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Dear friends, I urge you, as foreigners and exiles, to abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that, though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. 13 Submit yourselves for the Lords sake to every human authority: whether to the emperor, as the supreme authority, or to governors, who are sent by him to punish those who do wrong and to commend those who do right. For it is Gods will that by doing good you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people. Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil; live as Gods slaves. Show proper respect to everyone, love the family of believers, fear God, honor the emperor. 18 Slaves, in reverent fear of God submit yourselves to your masters, not only to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are harsh. For it is commendable if someone bears up under the pain of unjust suffering because they are conscious of God. But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it, this is commendable before God. To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in his steps. He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate; when he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; by his wounds you have been healed. For you were like sheep going astray, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls..|IMS-199
english|Glorify||Glorify Your name, Glorify Your name, Raise the banner, raise it high. Father, glorify. Jesus light the flame. Jesus light the flame. Give us passion for Your name. Jesus light the flame. Purify Your bride, Purify Your bride. Cleanse her with Your holy fire. Jesus purify. Raise the banner, raise it high. Father, glorify.|IMS-200
english|If I Were A Butterfly||If I were a butterfly I'd thank you Lord for giving me wings And if I were a robin in a tree I'd thank you Lord that I could sing And if I were a fish in the sea I'd wiggle my tail and I'd giggle with glee but I just thank you Father for making me me. Cause you gave me a heart And you gave me a smile, You gave me Jesus And you made me Your child, and I just thank you Father for making me me. If I were an elephant I'd thank you Lord by waving my trunk And if I were a kangaroo, I'd just hop right up to You. And if I were an octopus I'd thank you Lord for my good looks, but I just thank you Father for making me me. If I were a wiggly worm I'd thank you Lord that I could squirm, And if I were a crocodile I'd thank you Lord for my big smile. And if I were a fuzzy wuzzy bear, I'd thank you Lord for my fuzzy wuzzy hair, but I just thank you Father for making me me. If I were a butterfly I'd thank you Lord for giving me wings And if I were a robin in a tree I'd thank you Lord that I could sing And if I were a fish in the sea I'd wiggle my tail and I'd giggle with glee but I just thank you Father for making me me. Cause you gave me a heart And you gave me a smile, You gave me Jesus And you made me Your child, and I just thank you Father for making me me. If I were an elephant I'd thank you Lord by waving my trunk And if I were a kangaroo, I'd just hop right up to You. And if I were an octopus I'd thank you Lord for my good looks, but I just thank you Father for making me me. If I were a wiggly worm I'd thank you Lord that I could squirm, And if I were a crocodile I'd thank you Lord for my big smile. And if I were a fuzzy wuzzy bear, I'd thank you Lord for my fuzzy wuzzy hair, but I just thank you Father for making me me.|IMS-201
english|Lamb of God||Your only Son, no sin to hide But you have sent Him from Your side To walk upon this guilty sod And to become the Lamb of God Your gift of love, they crucified They mocked and scorned Him as He died, The humble King, they named a fraud And sacrificed the Lamb of God. Oh Lamb of God, sweet Lamb of God I love the Holy Lamb of God Oh wash me in His precious blood My Jesus Christ the Lamb of God I was so lost, I should have died But you have brought me to your side To be led by your staff and rod And to be called a lamb of God|IMS-202
english|I Saw the Light||I wandered so aimless life filled with sin I wouldn't let my dear Savior in Then Jesus came like a stranger in the night Praise the Lord I saw the light. I saw the light I saw the light No more in darkness no more at night Now I'm so happy no sorrow in sight Praise the Lord I saw the light. Just like a blind man I wandered along Worries and fears I claimed for my own Then like the blind man that God gave back his sight Praise the Lord I saw the light. I was a fool to wander and stray For straight is the gate and narrow the way Now I have traded the wrong for the right Praise the Lord I saw the light.|IMS-203
english|God So Loved the World||God so loved the world, God so loved the world, When He hung it in space like a big blue pearl, He said, "That's good, that's good!" For God so loved the world, God so loved the world, When He hung it in space like a big blue pearl, He said, "That's good, that's good!" It filled Him with joy, For He loved it so much. The earth seemed to sing Because of His touch. The earth seemed to sing Because of His touch. It glittered and shone Like a star in the night. It whirled throughout space And danced in the light. It whirled throughout space And danced in the light. Yes, that's good."|IMS-208
english|That Sneaky Snake||That sneaky snake slipped upon the scene, His eyes were red and his skin was green. He said, "Open, open up your eyes, Listen, oh listen, to all of my lies, Listen, oh listen, to all of my lies. That slimy snake slid right up a tree, Said "Look here, Eve, come and talk to me." Then he hissed and ate an apple raw. Eve looked at him and she liked what she saw, Eve looked at him and she liked what she saw. She took a bite from the fruit so red, And in that moment sin filled her head. She slid with the snake to Adam's place, And on that day they both fell from God's grace, And on that day they both fell from God's grace.|IMS-209
english|Jezebel||Shoo-bee doo-wee daht-n doo wah, Shoo-bee doo-wee daht-n doo wah, Now, Jezebel was their queen; A meaner queen you've never seen! She prayed daily to a stone god, She bowed and scraped and acted odd. Then when she heard what Elijah had done, She vowed to get even for everyone, She screamed (she screamed) and raged, (and raged) Her face turned red, she said, This time tomorrow you'll be dead, so dead! Enough is enough; hear what I've said: This time tomorrow, oh! You'll be dead! Dead! Oh, so dead!" She said, "Watch your head!" Dah-daht-n dah-dah, daht-n doo-wah, Dah-daht-n dah-dah, daht-n doo-wah, Doot doot doot doot shoo be doo wee Doot doot doot doot shoo be doo wee You'll be dead, oh so dead! Yes, my fine friend, you'll be dead, Enough is enough; hear what I've said: This time tomorrow, oh! you'll be dead!|IMS-210
english|Glory, Hallelujah||Sing glory, glory, hallelujah! All glory be to God above! Our voices we raise as gladly we praise Lord of life and love, Lord of life and love. Now in every land, Join the angel band, Telling all of Jesus' birth. As our hearts unite, We share His light, And peace, goodwill on earth, And Peace, goodwill on earth. Hallelujah, amen! Hallelujah, amen!|IMS-211
english|Worthy Is The Lamb||The angels sang a little song They learned from praising God Around the throne. They sang it softly In the Christ child's ear. And then He smiled up from the straw. His little eyes were sparkling at what He saw: An angel band singing near That only Jesus could hear. Worthy is the Lamb, Worthy is the Lamb, The only Son of the great "I Am;" Worthy is the Lamb. Worthy is the Lamb|IMS-212
english|And the Lord Came Passing By||And the Lord came passing by And a great strong wind Blew from the sky, Then it tossed big rocks around like sand, But the Lord Was not in the wind. Then the earth began to shake And the mountain began to quake, And it seemed the world would surely break, But the Lord was not the earthquake. After that, there came the fire, The flames leaped up higher and higher, Glowing red like an angry choir! But the Lord was not in the fire, The Lord was not in the fire. He came like a soft wind blowing, Loving, kind and all knowing. He spoke words to calm all fear; He promised help and friends were near, He promised help and friends were ever near, near, near.|IMS-213
english|March of the Angels||Ten thousand angels times ten thousand Parading through a split in time They march through the ages singing, Angels of every kind, Every different kind. There are seraphim, There are cherubim, There are angels short and tall. With a trumpet blast and cymbal crash, They wait to hear God's call, They wait to hear God's call. Ten million angels times ten million Come marching into space and dreams. They wondrously serve Jehovah, Singing of secret things, secret, holy things. They sing of Eden and the snake, And the difference evil makes. They sing of Jacob and of Lot, And the law that was forgot. They sing of life in a foreign land, Fiery furnaces and lion's den. They sing of Jesus and his birth, And how He gives His children worth. Hallelujah, amen! Hallelujah, amen!|IMS-214
english|Elijah's Song||Lord, I've always served you, But me, oh my, I'm feelin' blue, Cause we're alone, Lord, Just me and you. Everybody's gone away, It looks like, Lord, They've gone to stay. Lord, help me, I'm in a pickle, Cause my life is not worth a plugged nickle. Oh, Lord, help him, He's in a pickle, Oh, 'cause his life's Not worth a plugged nickle. We're alone, Lord, Just me and you. Lord, help me, I'm in a pickle, Cause my life is not worth a plugged nickle. Oh, Lord, help him, He's in a pickle, Oh, 'cause his life's Not worth a plugged nickle. Lord, help him, He's in a pickle, Cause his life's not worth a plugged nickle.|IMS-215
english|Be Careful Little Eyes||O be careful little eyes what you see O be careful little eyes what you see For the Father up above He is looking down in love O be careful little eyes what you see O be careful little ears what you hear O be careful little ears what you hear For the Father up above He is looking down in love O be careful little ears what you hear O be careful little hands what you do O be careful little hands what you do For the Father up above He is looking down in love O be careful little hands what you do O be careful little feet where you go O be careful little feet where you go For the Father up above He is looking down in love O be careful little feet where you go|IMS-216
english|Psalm 34:13||Keep your tongue from evil Keep your tongue. Keep your tongue from evil Keep your tongue. And your lips from speaking lies, Keep your tongue from evil Keep your tongue.|IMS-218
english|Did You Ever Talk To God||Did you ever talk to God above, Tell Him that you need a friend to love, Pray in Jesus' name believing That God answers prayer? Have you told Him all your cares and woes, Every tiny little fear He knows You can know He'll always hear And He will answer prayer. You can whisper in a crowd to Him, You can cry when you're alone to Him, You don't have to pray out loud to Him, He knows your thoughts. On a lofty mountain peak, He's there In a meadow by a stream, He's there Anywhere on earth you go, He's been there from the start. Find the answer in His Word, --it's true You'll be strong because He walks --with you By His faithfulness, He'll change you too God answers prayer.|IMS-219
english|Arky, Arky||The Lord told Noah There's gonna be a floody, floody, The Lord told Noah There's gonna be a floody, floody, Get those animals Out of the muddy, muddy, Children of the Lord! The Lord told Noah To build him an arky, arky, The Lord told Noah To build him an arky, arky, Build it out of Gopher barky barky, Children of the Lord. So rise and shine And give God the glory, glory Rise and shine And give God the glory, glory, Rise and Shine and Give God the glory, glory, Children of the Lord. The animals, the animals They came in by twosies, twosies, The animals, the animals, They came in by twosies, twosies Elephants and kangaroosies, roosies, Children of the Lord. It rained and poured For 40 daysies, daysies Rained and poured For 40 daysies, daysies Nearly drove those Animals crazies, crazies Children of the Lord The sun came out And dried up the landy, landy The sun came out And dried up the landy, landy, Everything was Fine and dandy, dandy Children of the Lord e Lord|IMS-221
english|Freely, Freely||God forgave my sin in Jesus' name, I've been born again in Jesus' name. And in Jesus' name I come to you, To share His love as He told me to. He said, "Freely, freely, you have received, Freely, freely give. Go in my name, and because you believe, Others will know that I live." All power is giv'n in Jesus' name, In earth and heav'n in Jesus' name. And in Jesus' name I come to you To share His power as He told me to.|IMS-233
english|You Never Let Go of Me||Even though I walk Through the valley Of the shadow of death, Your perfect love is casting out fear. And even when I'm caught In the middle Of the storms of this life, I won't turn back, I know You are near. And I will fear no evil, For my God is with me. And if my God is with me, Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Oh no, You never let go, Through the calm and through the storm Oh no, You never let go, In every high and every low Oh no, You never let go, Lord, You never let go of me. And I can see a light That is coming For the heart that holds on A glorious light beyond all compare. And there will be an end To these troubles, But until that day comes, We'll live to know You here on the earth. Yes, I can see a light That is coming For the heart that holds on, And there will be an end To these troubles, But until that day comes, Still I will praise You, Still I will praise You.|IMS-234
english|Put on the Full Armor of God||Put on the full armor of God Put on the full armor of God Put on the full armor of God And resist the schemes of the Devil! I've got my feet shod With the preparation of peace I've got my sword of the Spirit My shield of faith I've got my breastplate of righteousness My helmet of salvation I put on the armor And I'm ready for the battle Ready for the battle!|IMS-235
english|Mighty to Save||Everyone needs compassion Love that's never failing Let mercy fall on me Everyone needs forgiveness The kindness of a Savior The hope of nations Saviour He can move the mountains My God is mighty to save He is mighty to save Forever Author of Salvation He rose and conquered the grave Jesus Conquered the grave So take me as you find me All my fears and failures Fill my life again I give my life to follow Everything I believe in Now I Surrender Shine your light and Let the whole world see We're singing for the glory Of the risen King Jesus Shine your light and Let the whole world see We're singing for the glory Of the risen King|IMS-236
english|Forever||Let my song be a sweet perfume Rising up to heaven, Let my life be a prayer to You, Pleasing You forever. Forever I will live my days. Forever I will sing Your praise, O Lord (Jesus) my God (Savior) O Lord (Jesus) my God (Savior) O Lord. Forever, O Lord|IMS-237
english|Happy Day||The greatest day in history, Death is beaten, you have rescued me. Sing it out, Jesus is alive! The empty cross, the empty grave, Life eternal, you have won the day, Shout it out, Jesus is alive! He's alive! Oh, happy day, happy day, You washed my sin away Oh, happy day, happy day, I'll never be the same Forever I am changed. When I stand in that place, Free at last, meeting face to face, I am yours, Jesus, you are mine. Endless joy, perfect peace, Earthly pain finally will cease Celebrate, Jesus is alive, He's alive! Oh, what a glorious day What a glorious way That you have saved me! Oh, what a glorious day What a glorious name YEAH!|IMS-238
english|Glory to God, Forever||Before the world was made, Before You spoke it to be You were the King of Kings Yes you were, yes you were And now you're reigning still Enthroned above all things Angels and saints cry out, We join them as we sing Glory to God, Glory to God Glory to God forever Creator God you gave Me breath so I could praise Your great and matchless name, All my days, all my days So let my whole life be A blazing offering A life that shouts and sings The greatness of the King Take my life and let it be All for you and for your glory Take my life and let it be yours|IMS-239
english|A Thousand, A Thousand Thanksgivings||Thou Life of my life, blessed Jesus, Thou death of the death that was mine, For me was Thy cross and Thine anguish, Thy love and Thy sorrow divine; Thou suffered the cross and the torment, That I might forever go free A thousand, a thousand thanksgivings, I bring, blessed Saviour, to Thee! For me Thou hast borne the reproaches, The mockery, hate and disdain; The blows and the spittings of sinners, The scourging, the shame, and the pain; To save me from bondage and judgment, Thou gladly hast suffered for me A thousand, a thousand thanksgivings, I bring, blessed Saviour, to Thee! O Lord, from my heart I do thank Thee For all Thou hast borne in my room, Thine agony, dying, unsolaced, Alone in the darkness of doom, That I, in the glory of heaven, Forever and ever might be A thousand, a thousand thanksgivings, I bring, blessed Saviour, to Thee!|IMS-240
english|Easter Song||Hear the bells ringing they're singing That we can be born again! Hear the bells ringing they're singing Christ is risen from the dead!" The angel upon the tombstone said, He is risen just as He said. Quickly now, go tell His disciples that Jesus Christ is no longer dead." Joy to the world, He is risen, Hallelujah, He's risen, Hallelujah, He's risen, Hallelujah, hallelujah Joy to the world, He is risen, Hallelujah, He's risen, Hallelujah, He's risen, Hallelujah, hallelujah Ha le lu jah|IMS-241
english|Chosen Generation||For you are a chosen generation, A royal priesthood, A holy nation, A peculiar people, That you should show forth The praises of Him Who has called you out of darkness Out of darkness out of darkness Into His marvelous light Into His marvelous light.|IMS-242
english|Think About His Love||Think about his love, Think about his goodness, Think about his grace That's brought us through For as high as the heavens above So great is the measure of our Father's love Great is the measure of our Father's love. How could I forget His love? How could I forget His mercy? He satisfies, He satisfies, He satisfies my desires. Even when I've strayed away His love has sought me out and found me He satisfies, He satisfies, He satisfies my desires.|IMS-243
english|Blow the Trumpet in Zion||They rush on the city, they run on the wall. Great is the army that carries out His word. They rush on the city, they run on the wall. Great is the army that carries out His word. The Lord utters His voice before his army. The Lord utters His voice before his army. Blow the trumpet in Zion, Zion. Sound the alarm on My holy mountain. Blow the trumpet in Zion, Zion. Sound the alarm.|IMS-244
english|Awesome In This Place||As I come into Your presence, Past the gates of praise, Into Your sanctuary Till we're standing face to face; I look upon Your countenance, I see the fullness of Your grace, And I can only bow down and say. You are awesome in this place, Mighty God, You are awesome in this place, Abba Father; You are worthy of all praise, To You our lives we raise, You are awesome in this place, Mighty God."|IMS-245
english|Take Me In||Take me past the outer courts Into the Holy Place Past the brazen altar Lord I want to see your face Pass me by the crowds of people And the Priests who sing your praise I hunger and thirst for your righteousness But it's only found in one place Take me into the holy of holies Take me in by the blood of the lamb Take me into the holy of holies Take the coal, touch my lips, here I am. Take me past the outer courts Into the Holy Place Past the brazen altar Lord I want to see your face Pass me by the crowds of people And the Priests who sing your praise I hunger and thirst for your righteousness But it's only found in one place Take me into the holy of holies Take me in by the blood of the lamb Take me into the holy of holies Take the coal, touch my lips, here I am Take the coal, touch my lips, here I am.|IMS-246
english|Psalm 119:105||Your Word, Your Word Is a lamp to my feet Your Word, Your Word Is a lamp to my feet. And a light for my path And a light for my path Your Word, Your Word Is a lamp to my feet.|IMS-247
english|Romans 6:23||For the wages of sin is death For the wages of sin is death But the gift of God is eternal life But the gift of God is eternal life In Christ Jesus our Lord In Christ Jesus our Lord.|IMS-248
english|Sing to the King||Sing to the King who is coming to reign Glory to Jesus, the lamb that was slain Life and salvation his empire shall bring And joy to the nations, when Jesus is King Come, let us sing a song, A song declaring we belong to Jesus He is all we need Lift up a heart of praise, Sing now with voices raised to Jesus Sing to the King For his returning we watch and we pray We will be ready the dawn of that day We'll join in singing with all the redeemed Cause Satan is vanquished and Jesus is King.|IMS-249
english|Only a Boy Named David||Only a boy named David, Only a little sling. Only a boy named David, But he could pray and sing. Only a boy named David, Only a rippling brook, Only a boy named David, But five little stones he took. And one little stone went in the sling And the sling went 'round and 'round, And one little stone went in the sling And the sling went 'round and 'round, And 'round and 'round and 'round and 'round And 'round and 'round and 'round. And one little stone went up in the air And the giant came tumbling down!|IMS-250
english|Jesus, Lord to Me||Jesus, Jesus, Lord to me; Master Savior, Prince of Peace. Ruler of my heart today, Jesus, Lord to me.|IMS-251
english|I Am Not Mine Own||I am not mine own I've been bought with a price Precious blood of Christ I am not mine own. I belong to You, I've been bought with a price Precious blood of Christ, I belong to You, How could I ever say, I will choose another way." Knowing the price that's paid; Precious blood of Christ.|IMS-252
english|Here I Am, Lord||I, the Lord of sea and sky, I have heard my people cry. All who dwell in dark and sin, My hand will save. I, who made the stars of night, I will make their darkness bright. Who will bear my light to them? Whom shall I send? Here I am, Lord. Is it I, Lord? I have heard you calling in the night. I will go, Lord, If you lead me. I will hold your people in my heart. I, the Lord of snow and rain, I have borne my people's pain. I have wept for love of them. They turn away. I will break their hearts of stone, Give them hearts for love alone. I will speak my Word to them. Who shall I send? I, the Lord of wind and flame, I will tend the poor and lame. I will set a feast for them; My hand will save. Finest bread I will provide Til their hearts be satisfied. I will give my life to them. Whom shall I send?|IMS-253
english|Lead Me To The Cross||Savior I come Quiet my soul Remember Redemptions hill Where your blood was spilled For my ransom Everything I once held dear I count it all as loss Lead me to the cross Where your love poured out Bring me to my knees Lord I lay me down Rid me of myself I belong to you Lead me... lead me to the cross You were as I, tempted and tried Human The Word became flesh Bore my sin and death Now you're risen! To your heart To your heart Lead me to your heart Lead me to your heart|IMS-254
english|None But Jesus||In the quiet In the stillness I know that you are God In the secret of your presence I know there I am restored So when you call, I won't refuse Each new day again I'll choose There is no one else for me None but Jesus Crucified to set me free Now I live to bring Him praise In the chaos And confusion I know you're sovereign still In the moment of my weakness You give me strength to do Your will All my delight is in you Lord All of my hope, all of my strength All my delight is in you Lord Forever more|IMS-255
english|Hosanna (in the highest)||I see the King of Glory Coming on the clouds with fire The whole earth shakes The whole earth shakes I see His love and mercy Washing over all our sin The people sing The people sing Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest I see a generation Rising up to take the place With self-less faith With self-less faith I see a near revival Stirring as we pray and seek We're on our knees We're on our knees Heal my heart and make it clean Open up my eyes to the things unseen Show me how to love like you Have loved me Break my heart for what breaks yours Everything I am for your kingdom's cause As I walk from earth into Eternity Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest Hosanna in the highest|IMS-256
english|Soon||Soon and very soon My King is coming Clothed in righteousness And crowned with love When I see Him I Shall be made like Him Soon and very soon Soon and very soon I'll be going To the place He has Prepared for me There my sin erased My shame forgotten Soon and very soon I will be with the one I love With unveiled face I'll see Him There my soul will be satisfied Soon and very soon Soon and very soon See the procession The angels and the elders Round the throne At His feet I'll lay My crown, my worship Soon and very soon Soon and very soon Soon and very soon|IMS-257
english|Thy Mercy||Thy mercy my God Is the theme of my song The joy of my heart and the boast of my tongue Thy free grace alone from the first to the last Has won my affection and bound my soul fast Without thy sweet mercy I could not live here Sin would reduce me to utter despair But through thy free goodness my spirits revive And He that first made me still keeps me alive Thy mercy is more than a match for my heart Which wonders to feel its own hardness depart Dissolved by thy goodness I fall to the ground And weep for the praise of the mercy I've found Great Father of mercies, thy goodness I own And the covenant love of thy crucified Son All praise to the Spirit whose whisper divine Seals mercy and pardon and righteousness mine All praise to the Spirit whose whisper divine Seals mercy and pardon and righteousness mine|IMS-258
english|Like an Avalanche||Beautiful God, Laying Your majesty aside You reached out in love to show me life Lifted from darkness into light, Oh King for a slave, Trading Your righteousness for shame Despite all my pride and foolish ways Caught in Your infinite embrace, Oh And I find myself here on my knees again Caught up in grace like an avalanche Nothing compares to this love, love, love, Burning in my heart Saviour and Friend Breathe Your life into my heart Your word is a lamp unto my path Forever I'm humbled by Your love, Oh Take my life, Take all that I am, With all that I am I will love you Take my heart, Take all that I have, Jesus how I adore You.|IMS-259
english|Children of God||Praise to the Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ Our God and our King, to Him we will sing In His great mercy, He has given us life Now we can be called the children of God Great is the Love that the Father has given us He has delivered us, He has delivered us Children of God, sing your song and rejoice For the love that He has given us all Children of God, by the blood of His Son We have been redeemed and we can be called Children of God Children of God A mystery is revealed to the universe The Father above has proven His love Now we are free from the judgment that we deserve And so we are called the children of God We are the saints We are the children Weve been redeemed Weve been forgiven We are the sons and the daughters of our God Children of God, sing your song and rejoice For the love that He has given us all Children of God, by the blood of His Son We have been redeemed and we can be called --- We are the saints We are the children Weve been redeemed Weve been forgiven We are the sons and the daughters of our God Children of God Children of God|IMS-260
english|God is so Good||God is so good, God is so good, God is so good, He's so good to me. God is so good, God is so good, God is so good, He's so good to me. God nizhoni God nizhoni God nizhoni Shi chii go nizhoni|IMS-262
english|Forever Reign||You are good, You are good When there's nothing good in me You are love, You are love On display for all to see You are light, You are light When the darkness closes in You are hope, You are hope You have covered all my sin You are peace, You are peace When my fear is crippling You are true, You are true Even in my wandering You are joy, You are joy You're the reason that I sing You are life, You are life In You death has lost its sting Oh, I'm running to your arms I'm running to your arms The riches of your love Will always be enough Nothing compares to your embrace Light of the world forever reign You are more, You are more Than my words can ever say You are Lord, You are Lord All creation will proclaim You are here, You are here In your presence I'm made whole You are God, You are God Of all else I'm letting go My heart will sing No other name Jesus, Jesus|IMS-263
english|I Am the Door||I am the door I am the door By me if anyone enter in He shall be saved She shall be saved We shall be saved! I am the door The words are but four Millions are in But there's room for more The door's open wide, Come right inside And you shall be saved! I am the door I am the door By me if anyone enter in She shall be saved He shall be saved We shall be saved!|IMS-264
navajo|United States of America|| Bidah Naatai taa iiyisii shi iliigo biniinaa bichi adeeshne. Haala ajooba Haala ajooba Haala ajooba ahosinii yee hadete. Nihikeyah taaai Nihikeyah taaai Nihikeyah taaai Sianigii, Diyin God bee bohwiiniil niihgo bi nah ji niikeh ajooba bidziilii bee daahiiniita. niikeh ajooba bidziilii bee daahiiniita.|IMS-265
english|Take Me Jesus, As I Am||Take me Jesus as I am I can come no other way Draw me closer unto You Teach me how to walk Your way Make me like a precious stone Crystal clear and finely honed The light of Jesus shining through Giving glory back to You|IMS-266
english|All the Poor and Powerless||All the poor and powerless And all the lost and lonely All the thieves will come confess And know that you are holy Will know that you are holy All will sing out, Hallelujah We will cry out, Hallelujah All the hearts who are content And all who feel unworthy All who hurt with nothing left Will know that you are holy All will sing out, Hallelujah We will cry out, Hallelujah All will sing out, Hallelujah We will cry out, Hallelujah Shout it, Go on and scream it from the mountains Go on and tell it to the masses That He is God (repeat) We will sing out, Hallelujah We will cry out, Hallelujah We will sing out, Hallelujah God|IMS-267
english|Ten Thousand Reasons||The sun comes up It's a new day dawning It's time to sing Your song again Whatever may pass And whatever lies before me Let me be singing When the evening comes. Bless the Lord, oh my soul Oh my soul Worship his holy name Sing like never before Oh my soul I'll worship your holy name. You're rich in love And you're slow to anger. Your name is great And your heart is kind. For all your goodness I will keep on singing. 10,000 reasons for my heart to find. Bless the Lord, oh my soul Oh my soul Worship his holy name Sing like never before Oh my soul I'll worship your holy name. And on that day When my strength is failing. The end draws near And my time has come. Still my soul will sing Your praise unending 10,000 years and then forever more. Bless the Lord, oh my soul Oh my soul Worship his holy name Sing like never before Oh my soul I'll worship your holy name. I'll worship your holy name. Yes, I'll worship your holy name.|IMS-268
english|Cornerstone||My hope is built on nothing less Than Jesus' blood and righteousness I dare not trust the sweetest frame but wholly trust in Jesus' name Christ alone, cornerstone Weak made strong, in the Savior's love Through the storm, He is Lord The Lord of all When darkness seems to hide His face I rest on His unchanging grace In every high and stormy gale My anchor holds within the veil My anchor holds within the veil Christ alone, cornerstone Weak made strong, in the Savior's love Through the storm, He is Lord The Lord of all He is Lord, the Lord of all Christ alone, cornerstone Weak made strong, in the Savior's love Through the storm, He is Lord The Lord of all When He shall come with trumpet sound Oh may I then in Him be found Dressed in His righteousness alone Faultless I stand before the throne Christ alone, cornerstone Weak made strong, in the Savior's love Through the storm, He is Lord The Lord of all conerstone|IMS-269
english|Indescribable||From the highest of heights To the depths of the sea Creation's revealing Your majesty From the colors of fall To the fragrance of spring Every creature unique In the song that it sings All exclaiming Indescribable, uncontainable You placed the stars in the sky And you know them by name. You are amazing God All powerful, untamable, Awestruck we fall to our knees As we humbly proclaim You are amazing God. Who has told every lightning bolt Where it should go Or seen heavenly storehouses Laden with snow Who imagined the sun And give source to its light Yet conceals it to bring us The coolness of night None can fathom Indescribable, uncontainable You placed the stars in the sky And you know them by name. You are amazing God Incomparable, unchangeable, You see the depths of my heart And you love me the same You are amazing God. You are amazing God Indescribable, uncontainable You placed the stars in the sky And you know them by name. You are amazing God All powerful, untameable, Awestruck we fall to our knees As we humbly proclaim You are amazing God. You are amazing Godd|IMS-270
english|Hallelujah, What a Savior||Man of sorrows what a name For the Son of God who came Ruined sinners to reclaim Hallelujah! Bearing shame and scoffing rude In my place condemned He stood, Sealed my pardon with His blood, Hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, what a Savior! Guilty, vile and helpless we Spotless Lamb of God was He Full atonement can it be? Hallelujah! Lifted up was He to die It is finished was His cry Now in Heav'n exalted high, Hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, what a Savior! When He comes our glorious King All His ransomed home to bring Then anew this song we'll sing Hallelujah! Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, what a Savior!|IMS-271
english|Holy Hands||Not what my hands have done can save my guilty soul; not what my toiling flesh has borne, can make my spirit whole. Not what I feel or do, can give me peace with God; not all my prayers and sighs and tears can bear my awful load. These guilty hands are raised, filthy rags are all I bring And I have come, to hide beneath your wings These holy hands are raised, Washed in the fountain of your grace And now I wear your righteousness Thy work alone oh Christ can ease this weight of sin Thy blood alone, oh Lamb of God, can give me peace within Thy Love to me, oh God, not mine oh Lord to Thee Can rid me of this dark unrest and set my Spirit free Thy grace alone oh God to me can pardon speak Thy power alone oh Lamb of God can this sore bondage break No other work save thine, no other blood will do No strength but that which is divine can bear me safely through I praise the God of grace; I trust his truth and might He calls me his, I call him mine, My God, my Joy, my Light My Lord has saved my life and freely pardon gives; I love because he first loved me, I live because he lives.|IMS-272
english|The Lord is My Shepherd||The Lord is my shepherd, I'll walk with Him always. He leads by still waters I'll walk with Him always. Always, always, I'll walk with Him always Always, always, I'll walk with Him always.|IMS-273
english|Philippians 2:5-11||Have this attitude in yourselves Which was also in Christ Jesus, Who, although He existed in the form of God, Did not regard equality with God A thing to be grasped, But emptied Himself, Taking the form of a bond-servant, And being made in the likeness of men. Jesus Christ is Lord, Jesus Christ is Lord, Being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself by becoming obedient To the point of death, even death on a cross. For this reason also, God highly exalted Him, And bestowed on Him The name which is above every name, So that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, Of those who are in heaven And on earth and under the earth, And that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, Jesus Christ is Lord, To the glory of God the Father.|IMS-274
english|I will make you fishers of men ||Fishers of men, fishers of men. I will make you fishers of men If you follow me. If you follow me, If you follow me I will make you fishers of men If you follow me. Hear Christ calling, "Come unto me" Come unto me, Come unto me" Hear Christ calling, "Come unto me I will give you rest." I will give you rest, I will give you rest Hear Christ calling, "Come unto me I will give you rest." Read your Bible, pray every day Pray every day, pray every day. Read your Bible, pray every day And you'll grow, grow, grow. And you'll grow, grow, grow. And you'll grow, grow, grow. Read your Bible, pray every day And you'll grow, grow, grow. Neglect your Bible, forget to pray forget to pray, forget to pray. Neglect your Bible, forget to pray And you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. And you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. And you'll shrink, shrink, shrink. Neglect your Bible, forget to pray And you'll shrink, shrink, shrink.|IMS-275
english|Broken Vessels||All these pieces broken and scattered In mercy gathered mended and whole Empty handed But not forsaken I've been set free I've been set free Amazing grace How sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost but now I am found Was blind but now I see Oh I can see You now Oh I can see the love in Your eyes Laying Yourself down Raising up the broken to life You take our failure You take our weakness You set Your treasure In jars of clay So take this heart, Lord I'll be Your vessel The world to see Your life in me Amazing grace How sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost but now I am found Was blind but now I see Oh I can see You now Oh I can see the love in Your eyes Laying Yourself down Raising up the broken to life|IMS-278
english|Oceans (Where Feet May Fail)||You call me out upon the waters The great unknown where feet may fail And there I find You in the mystery In oceans deep My faith will stand And I will call upon Your name And keep my eyes above the waves When oceans rise My soul will rest in Your embrace For I am Yours and You are mine Your grace abounds in deepest waters Your sovereign hand Will be my guide Where feet may fail and fear surrounds me You've never failed and You won't start now Spirit lead me where my trust is without borders Let me walk upon the waters Wherever You would call me Take me deeper than my feet could ever wander And my faith will be made stronger In the presence of my Savior And I will call upon Your name And keep my eyes above the waves My soul will rest in Your embrace For I am Yours and You are mine|IMS-279
english|Grace On Top Of Grace||Lord how Youve loved me, I dont deserve Grace on top of grace More than Ive asked for, more than Im worth Grace on top of grace How sweet the sound Once lost, now found Heaven came down And Jesus rescued me How sweet the sound Once lost, now found Heaven came down And Jesus rescued me Hallelujah I am free From my sin and penalty At the cross You took my place With Your grace on top of grace Lord how Youve loved me, I dont deserve Grace on top of grace More than Ive asked for, more than Im worth Grace on top of grace How sweet the sound Once lost, now found Heaven came down And Jesus rescued me How sweet the sound Once lost, now found Heaven came down And Jesus rescued me Hallelujah I am free From my sin and penalty At the cross You took my place With Your grace on top of grace Hallelujah I am free From my sin and penalty At the cross You took my place With Your grace on top of grace With Your grace on top of grace|IMS-280
english|Man of Sorrows (Hillsong)||Man of sorrows Lamb of God By His own betrayed The sin of man and wrath of God Has been on Jesus laid Silent as He stood accused Beaten mocked and scorned Bowing to the Father's will He took a crown of thorns Oh that rugged cross My salvation Where Your love poured out over me Now my soul cries out Hallelujah Praise and honor unto Thee Sent of heaven God's own Son To purchase and redeem And reconcile the very ones Who nailed Him to that tree Oh that rugged cross My salvation Where Your love poured out over me Now my soul cries out Hallelujah Praise and honor unto Thee Now my debt is paid It is paid in full By the precious blood That my Jesus spilled Now the curse of sin Has no hold on me Whom the Son sets free Oh is free indeed Oh that rugged cross My salvation Where Your love poured out over me Now my soul cries out Hallelujah Praise and honor unto Thee See the stone is rolled away Behold the empty tomb Hallelujah God be praised He's risen from the grave Oh that rugged cross My salvation Where Your love poured out over me Now my soul cries out Hallelujah Praise and honor unto Thee Praise and honor unto Thee|IMS-281
english|Every Giant Will Fall||I can see the Promised Land Though there's pain within the plan There is victory in the end Your love is my battle cry When my fears, like Jericho Build their walls around my soul When my heart is overthrown Your love is my battle cry The anthem for all my life Every giant will fall, the mountains will move Every chain of the past, You've broken in two Over fear, over lies, we're singing the truth That nothing is impossible with You There is hope within the fight In the wars that rage inside Though the shadows steal the light Your love is my battle cry The anthem for all my life Every giant will fall, the mountains will move Every chain of the past, You've broken in two Over fear, over lies, we're singing the truth That nothing is impossible with You No greater name, no higher name No stronger name than Jesus You overcame, broke every chain Forever reign, King Jesus No greater name, no higher name No stronger name than Jesus You overcame, broke every chain Forever reign, King Jesus Every giant will fall, the mountains will move Every chain of the past, You've broken in two Over fear, over lies, we're singing the truth That nothing is impossible Every giant will fall, the mountains will move Every chain of the past, You've broken in two Over fear, over lies, we're singing the truth That nothing is impossible with You|IMS-282
english|We Exalt Thee||You can press the edit key to create a new song|IMS-283
english|Christ is Risen||Let no one caught in sin remain Inside the lie of inward shame We fix our eyes upon the cross And run to him who showed great love And bled for us Freely you bled, for us Christ is risen from the dead Trampling over death by death Come awake, come awake! Come and rise up from the grave! Christ is risen from the dead We are one with him again Come awake, come awake! Come and rise up from the grave! Beneath the weight of all our sin You bow to none but heaven's will No scheme of hell, no scoffer's crown No burden great can hold you down In strength you reign Forever let your church proclaim Oh death! Where is your sting? Oh grave! Where is your victory? Oh Church! Come stand in the light! The glory of God has defeated the night! Oh death! Where is your sting? Oh grave! Where is your victory? Oh Church! Come stand in the light! Our God is not dead, he's alive! He's alive!|IMS-284
english|The Stand||You stood before creation Eternity in Your hand You spoke the earth into motion My soul now to stand You stood before my failure And carried the cross for my shame My sin weighed upon Your shoulders My soul now to stand So what can I say And what can I do? But offer this heart O God Completely to You So I'll walk upon salvation Your spirit alive in me My life to declare Your promise My soul now to stand I'll stand with arms high and heart abandoned In awe of the One who gave it all I'll stand, my soul Lord to You surrendered all I am is Yours|IMS-285
english|Glorious Day||One day when Heaven was filled with His praises One day when sin was as black as could be Jesus came forth to be born of a virgin Dwelt among men, my example is He The Word became flesh And the Light shined among us His glory revealed Living He loved me Dying He saved me Buried He carried my sins far away Rising He justified freely forever One day He's coming Oh glorious day Oh glorious day One day they led Him up Calvary's mountain One day they nailed Him to die on a tree Suffering anguish, despised and rejected Bearing our sins my Redeemer is He The hand that healed nations Stretched out on a tree And took the nails from me One day the grave could conceal Him no longer One day the stone rolled away from the door Then He arose over death He had conquered Now is ascended my Lord evermore Death could not hold Him The grave could not keep Him From rising again One day the trumpet will sound for His coming One day the skies with His glories will shine Wonderful day My Beloved One's bringing My Savior, Jesus is mine Living He loved me, dying He saved me Buried He carried my sins far away Rising He justified freely forever One day He's coming Oh glorious day Glorious day Oh glorious day Glorious day|IMS-286
english|All Because of Jesus I'm Alive||Giver of every breath I breathe Author of all eternity Giver of every perfect thing To You be the glory Maker of heaven and of earth No one can comprehend Your worth King over all the universe To You be the glory And I'm alive because I'm alive in you And it's all because of Jesus I'm alive It's all because the blood of Jesus Christ That covers me and raised this dead man's life It's all because of Jesus I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive Every sunrise sings Your praise The universe cries out Your praise I'm singing freedom all my days Now that I'm alive And it's all because of Jesus I'm alive It's all because the blood of Jesus Christ That covers me and raised this dead man's life It's all because of Jesus And it's all because of Jesus I'm alive It's all because the blood of Jesus Christ That covers me and raised this dead man's life It's all because of Jesus I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive|IMS-287
english|Jesus Messiah||He became sin, who knew no sin That we might become His righteousness He humbled Himself, and carried the cross Love so amazing Love so amazing Jesus, Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The Rescue for sinners, The Ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all His body the bread His blood the wine Broken and poured out All for love The whole earth trembled And the veil was torn Love so amazing Love so amazing Jesus, Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The Rescue for sinners, The Ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all All our hope is in You All our hope is in You All the glory to You, God The light of the world Jesus, Messiah Name above all names Blessed Redeemer Emmanuel The Rescue for sinners, The Ransom from Heaven Jesus Messiah Lord of all|IMS-288
english|Who Am I||Who am I that the Lord of all the earth Would care to know my name Would care to feel my hurt Who am I that the Bright and Morning Star Would choose to light the way For my ever wandering heart Not because of who I am But because of what You've done Not because of what I've done But because of who You are I am a flower quickly fading Here today and gone tomorrow A wave tossed in the ocean A vapor in the wind Still You hear me when I'm calling Lord you catch me when I'm falling And you've told me who I am I am Yours I am Yours Who am I that the eyes that see my sin Would look on me with love and watch me rise again Who am I that the voice that calmed the sea Would call out through the rain and calm the storm in me|IMS-289
english|Psalm 59:16, 17||But as for me, I will sing of Thy strength; Yes, I shall joyfully sing of Thy lovingkindness In the morning, For Thou hast been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress. Oh my strength, I will sing, Praises to Thee; for God is my stronghold, The God who shows me lovingkindness.|IMS-299
english|Shadrach||Shadrach! What kind of name is that? Meshach! Who has a name like that? Shadrach! Meshach! Abednego! Whoa Whoa Whoa Oh No! Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, Lived in Judah a long time ago, They had funny names And they lived far away But they set an example You can follow today. THIS IS A STORY THAT YOU OUGHT TO KNOW ABOUT Shadrach, Meshack, Abednego Learned some lessons They want you to know, They did crazy things But it worked out okay Cause they knew what was right And they knew what to say. This is a story That you ought to know about Shadrach! What kind of name is that? Meshach! Who has a name like that? Shadrach! Meshach! Abednego! Whoa Whoa Whoa Abednego! Whoa whoa whoa. Shadrach! What kind of name is that? Meshach! Who has a name like that? Shadrach! Meshach! Abednego! Whoa Whoa Whoa Abednego! Abednego! Abednego! Oh No!|IMS-300
english|Not What My Hands||Not what my hands have done Can save my guilty soul Not what my toiling flesh has borne, Can make my spirit whole Not what I feel or do, Can give me peace with God; Not all my prayers and sighs and tears Can bear my awful load. These guilty hands are raised, Am Gsus Filthy rags are all I bring And I have come, to hide Beneath your wings These holy hands are raised, Washed in the fountain of your grace And now I wear your righteousness. Thy work alone, Oh Christ, Can ease this weight of sin. Thy blood alone, Oh Lamb of God, Can give me peace within. Thy love to me, Oh God, Not mine Oh Lord to Thee Can rid me of this dark unrest And set my spirit free. Thy grace alone Oh God To me can pardon speak Thy power alone Oh Lamb of God Can this sore bondage break No other work save Thine No other blood will do No strength but that which is divine Can bear me safely through I praise the God of grace; I trust his truth and might, He calls me His, I call Him mine My God, My Joy, My Light. My Lord has saved my life And freely pardon gives; I love because He first loved me I live because He lives.|IMS-301
english|It Pays to Remember||It pays to remember What you learned at school, All of your days, (it pays) It pays (it pays) Yes, it pays to remember What you learned at school All of your days, (it pays) It pays (it pays) Yes it pays to remember, It pays to remember All your days (it pays) It pays (it pays). When you're out in the world And feelin' blue, And you've bitten off more Than you can chew, There's surely one thing To help you through, Just remember this phrase, Remember it pays. When you've got to decide What you should do, But those doubts are all That nag at you, You'd better slow down And think it through, Just remember it this phrase, Remember it pays. It pays to remember What you learned at school, All of your days, (it pays) It pays (it pays) Yes, it pays to remember What you learned at school All of your days, (it pays) It pays (it pays) Yes, it pays to remember, It pays to remember All your days (it pays) It pays (it pays). Yes, it pays to remember, It pays to remember All your days.|IMS-302
english|Tra-la||Oh, there once were some wise men, tra-la, Who had a great problem, tra-la. They were asked to describe What went on inside Of the head of their king, tra-la. Tra la la, tra la la Tra la la, la la, la la! They were asked to describe What went on inside Of the head of their king, tra-la. Now the king was angry tra-la, He ranted and shouted, tra-la, Got them up from their beds And threatened their heads If they did not obey, tra la. Tra la la, tra la la Tra la la, la la, la la! Got them up from their beds And threatened their heads If they did not obey, tra la. So they begged for mercy tra-la But he would not listen tra-la Either tell me my dream" He started to scream Or you'll part with your heads tra-la Tra la la, tra la la Tra la la, la la, la la! Either tell me my dream" He started to scream Or you'll part with your heads tra-la Then they heard from Daniel tra-la He came with the answer tra-la You have nothing to fear Now Daniel is here, For he knows the king's riddle tra-la Tra la la, tra la la Tra la la, la la, la la! You have nothing to fear Now Daniel is here, For he knows the king's riddle tra-la So he solved the problem tra-la The wise men were happy tra-la Now the moral," he said Is "Don't lose your head No matter what comes," tra-la Tra la la, tra la la Tra la la, la la, la la! Now the moral," he said Is "Don't lose your head No matter what comes," tra-la Tra-la, tra-la, tra-la, tra-la!|IMS-303
english|Know When to Say "No"||Yes we know when to say no Yes we know Yes we know when to say no Yes we know Yes we know, yes we know. The king says "Bow down and pray, Worship my idol everyday And do it now without delay" What do you say? What do you say? We say "NO NO No We say "NO NO NO We say "NO NO NO We say "No NO NO The king says, "If you don't obey You won't survive another day, Cause you'll be baked Like potter's clay" What do you say? What do you say? Now God says, "There's just one way, No other God shall you obey, And your allegience I'll repay, What do you say? What do you say? We say "Yes Yes Yes We say "Yes Yes Yes We say "Yes Yes Yes We say "Yes Yes Yes|IMS-306
english|It's Cool in the Furnace||It isn't hot (Whew) In the furnace, man. It isn't hot (Sss) In the furnace, man. It isn't hot in the furnace, Man, this furnace is cool, cool, cool. Yes, it's cool. (Ah) In the furnace, man. Yes, it's cool. (Ooh) In the furnace, man. Yes it's cool in the furnace, Man this furnace is cool, cool, cool. ****** It's cool, it's cool, it's cool, it's cool, It's cool, cool, cool, cool.|IMS-307
english|Let the People Praise||Let the People Praise Let the People Praise Let the People Praise God. Praise the Lord in the Holy Place Praise Him in the firmament. Praise the Lord for His mighty acts, Praise Him for His excellence! Hallelujah, Amen Let the people praise our God. Hallelujah, Amen Let the people praise our God. Let the people praise our God. Hallelujah, Amen. Amen.|IMS-308
english|John 3:15-21||For God so loved the world that He gave his one and only son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send His son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through Him. Whoever believes in Him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only son. This is the verdict: Light has come into the world But men loved darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light, and will not come into the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the light, so that it may be seen plainly that what he has done has been done through God"|IMS-316
english|Acts 10:34-45||Opening his mouth, Peter said: I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality, but in every nation the man who fears Him and does what is right is welcome to Him. The word which He sent to the sons of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ  you yourselves know the thing which took place throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee, after the baptism which John proclaimed. You know of Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him. We are witnesses of all the things He did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They also put Him to death by hanging Him on a cross. God raised Him up on the third day and granted that He become visible, not to all the people, but to witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God, that is, to us who ate and drank with Him after He arose from the dead. And He ordered us to preach to the people, and solemnly to testify that this is the One who has been appointed by God as Judge of the living and the dead. Of Him all the prophets bear witness that through His name everyone who believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins.|IMS-317
english|F-A-I-T-H||If I never miss a week in Sunday School Do everything right, don't act like a fool And if I live by the Golden Rule Surely I'll please God. Noooo..... It is faith, F-A-I-T-H. It is faith, F-A-I-T-H. It is faith, F-A-I-T-H. Faith that pleases God. If I'm nice to my friends, keep my room real neat. Do all my chores, wipe the mud off my feet And help old people cross the street If I get perfect attendance attending school If I obey all the rules while I'm at the pool If I don't talk back and don't act too cool,ol,o cool,ol,|IMS-318
english|Psalm 23||1 The LORD is my shepherd, I shall not be in want. 2 He makes me lie down in green pastures, He leads me beside quiet waters, 3 He restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness for His name's sake. 4 Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. 5 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows. 6 Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the LORD forever.|IMS-323
english|Lift Him Up||Lift Him up, lift Him up, Lift the name of Jesus higher, Lift Him up, Raise His banner to the sky He said, "If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me." Lift Him up all ye people, Lift Him up! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise His righteousness forever. Praise the Lord, Lift your voices to the sky He said if we won't praise His name, Then the rocks and stones will cry out. Praise the Lord, all ye people, Praise the Lord! Show His love! Show His love! Show His love to everybody. Show His love, Let your candle always shine. He said that by the love we show, They will know we're His disciples. Show His love, all ye people Show His love!|IMS-325
english|How Great Thou Art||O Lord my God! When I in awesome wonder Consider all The worlds Thy hands have made I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, Thy power throughout The universe displayed Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, When through the woods And forest glades I wander And hear the birds Sing sweetly in the trees; When I look down From lofty mountain grandeur And hear the brook And feel the gentle breeze; Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, And when I think That God, His Son not sparing Sent him to die, I scarce can take it in; That on the cross, My burden gladly bearing, He bled and died To take away my sin; Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, When Christ shall come With shout of acclamation And take me home, What joy shall fill my heart! Then I shall bow In humble adoration And there proclaim, My God, how great Thou art! Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante, Nich' hashtaa, Yisdashiinitiinii, Ayoo'ant'e, ayooante,|IMS-341
english|The Bible Stands||The Bible stands like a rock undaunted Mid the raging storms of time; Its pages burn with the truth eternal, And they glow with a light sublime. The Bible stands though the hills may tumble, It will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble; I will plant my feet on its firm foundation, For the Bible stands.|IMS-345
english|Come Thou Fount (w/Navajo)||To haaliiji ahohkaahgo Baa hozho-go dahohtaa, Bijooba doo nineeneehii Baa ha niihgo dahohtaa, Yaaashdi yee dahataaii, Ei bee shiniitii doolee, Ayooooni yee haashiiti, Ako ei bee baa hashniih. Come Thou fount of every blessing Tune my heart to sing Thy grace Streams of mercy never ceasing Call for songs of loudest praise Teach me some melodious sonnet Sung by flaming tongues above Praise the mount I'm fixed upon it Mount of Thy redeeming love ShiTaa shika iinilwodgo Diijiiji shi niiniaazh, Iininizinii bikehgo Yaateehgo naa deeshaa, God bitsaaji yooiiyaago Jesus bee shenahoosdzin, Bahadzidii yikeh deesdlii, Bidi tei yee naashiisnii. Here I raise my Ebenezer Hither by Thy help I come And I hope by Thy good pleasure Safely to arrive at home Jesus sought me when a stranger Wandering from the fold of God He to rescue me from danger Interposed His precious blood Nijooba bee shaa hainia, Ako too niiidiishyaa Bee ayooa shiininiinii Ei bee shejei nii nili. Ako doo yooadeeshaa da, Doo shidziil dago ei baa, Shijei taaate ni doolee, Yaaashdi yah an'deeshdaa. O to grace how great a debtor Daily I'm constrained to be Let Thy goodness like a fetter Bind my wandring heart to Thee Prone to wander Lord I feel it Prone to leave the God I love Here's my heart Lord , take and seal it Seal it for Thy courts above|IMS-368
english|Genesis 1:1-5||Hodeeyd' Diyin God yt'h hinlii nda nahasdzn yiilaa. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Now the earth was formless and empty, Darkness was over the surface of the deep, And the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters And God said, "Let there be light" and there was light. God called the light DAY And the darkness He called NIGHT And there was evening and there was morning-- The first day. Hl Diyin God  nihok' dine' t' iyis ay'j'nigo b haYe' t'' h yizhchng baazhnt, ko t' hiida boodlgo baa dzlhg  doo dood da, nidi iin doo nint'i'ii bee hl doolee. John 3:16|IMS-411
english|I Can Only Imagine||I can only imagine what it will be like When I walk, by your side I can only imagine what my eyes will see When your face is before me I can only imagine I can only imagine Surrounded by Your glory What will my heart feel Will I dance for you Jesus Or in awe of You be still Will I stand in your presence Or to my knees will I fall Will I sing hallelujah Will I be able to speak at all I can only imagine I can only imagine I can only imagine when that day comes And I find myself standing in the Son I can only imagine when all I would do Is forever Forever worship You I can only imagine I can only imagine Surrounded by Your glory What will my heart feel Will I dance for you Jesus Or in awe of You be still Will I stand in your presence Or to my knees will I fall Will I sing hallelujah Will I be able to speak at all I can only imagine I can only imagine|IMS-412
english|2 Corinthians 3:18||But we all, with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord, the Spirit.|IMS-501
english|Ephesians 1:17-19||17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. 18 I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, 19 and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of His might|IMS-502
english|John 17:1-2||Jesus spoke these things; and lifting up His eyes to heaven, He said, "Father, the hour has come; glorify Your Son, that the Son may glorify You, even as You gave Him authority over all flesh, that to all whom You have given Him, He may give eternal life." Jesus s____ these things; and lifting up H__ eyes to heaven, He s___, "Father, the hour h__ come; glorify Your Son, t___ the Son may g_______ You, even as Y__ gave Him authority o___ all flesh, that to all whom You h___ given Him, He may g___ eternal life." Jesus s____ these t_____; and l______ up H__ eyes to h______, He s___, "Father, the hour h__ come; g______ Your Son, t___ the Son may g_______ You, even as Y__ gave Him a________ o___ all f____, t___ to all w___ You h___ given Him, He may g___ eternal life." J____ spoke t____ things; a__ lifting u_ His e___ to h_____, H_ said, "F_____, the h___ has c___; glorify Y___ Son, t___ the Son may glorify You, e___ as You g___ Him a________ over a__ flesh, that to a__ whom You have g____ Him, H_ m__ give eternal l___." J____ s____ t____ t_____; a__ l______ u_ H__ e___ t_ h______, H_ s___, "F_____, t__ h___ h__ c___; g______ Y___ S__, t___ t__ S__ m__ g_______ Y__, e___ a_ Y__ g___ H__ a________ o___ a__ f____, t___ t_ a__ w___ Y__ h___ g____ H__, H_ m__ g___ e______ l___."|IMS-550
english|John 17:3-5||"This is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent. I glorified You on the earth, having accomplished the work which You have given Me to do. Now, Father, glorify Me together with Yourself, with the glory which I had with You before the world was." This is e______ life, that t___ may k___ You, the o___ true God, a__ Jesus C_____ whom Y__ have sent. I g________ You on the earth, having a___________ the work w____ You h___ given Me to do. Now, Father, glorify Me t_______ with Y_______, with the glory w____ I had with Y__ before the w____ was." "T___ is e______ life, t____ t___ may k___ You, the o___ t___ God, a__ Jesus C_____ whom Y__ have s___. I g________ You on the earth, h_____ a___________ the work w____ You h___ given M_ to d_. Now, F_____, glorify Me t_______ with Y_______, with the g____ w____ I h__ with Y__ b_____ the w____ was." "T___ i_ e______ l___, t____ t___ m__ k___ Y__, t__ o___ t___ G__, a__ J____ C_____ w___ Y__ h___ s___. I g________ Y__ o_ t__ e____, h_____ a___________ t__ w___ w____ Y__ h___ g____ M_ t_ d_. N__, F_____, g______ M_ t_______ w___ Y_______, w___ t__ g____ w____ I h__ w___ Y__ b_____ t__ w____ w__."|IMS-551
english|John 17:13-17||But now I come to You; and these things I speak in the world so that they may have My joy made full in themselves. I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I do not ask You to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth; Your word is truth." B__ now I c___ to You; and t____ things I speak in the w____ so t___ they m__ have My j__ made f___ in t_________. I have g___ them Your w___; and the w____ has hated them, b______ t___ are n__ of the w____, even as I am n__ of the w____. I do not a__ You to t___ t___ out of the world, but to k___ them f___ the e___ one. They are n__ of the w____, e___ as I am not o_ the w____. Sanctify them in the t____; Your w___ is t____." B__ now I c___ to Y__; and t____ t______ I speak in the w____ so t___ they m__ h___ My j__ made f___ in t_________. I have g___ t___ Y___ w___; and the w____ has h____ t___, b______ t___ are n__ of the w____, e___ as I am n__ of the w____. I do not a__ Y__ to t___ t___ o__ of t__ w____, but to k___ them f___ t__ e___ o__. T___ are n__ of the w____, e___ as I am not o_ the w____. S_______ t___ in t__ t____; Y___ w___ is t____." B__ n__ I c___ t_ Y__; a__ t____ t______ I s____ i_ t__ w____ s_ t___ t___ m__ h___ My j__ m___ f___ i_ t_________. I h___ g___ t___ Y___ w___; a__ t__ w____ h__ h____ t___, b______ t___ a__ n__ o_ t__ w____, e___ a_ I a_ n__ o_ t__ w____. I d_ n__ a__ Y__ t_ t___ t___ o__ o_ t__ w____, b__ t_ k___ t___ f___ t__ e___ o__. T___ a__ n__ o_ t__ w____, e___ a_ I a_ n__ o_ t__ w____. S_______ t___ i_ t__ t____; Y___ w___ i_ t____."|IMS-552
english|John 17:18-21||"As You sent Me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. For their sakes I sanctify Myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those also who believe in Me through their word; that they may all be one; even as You, Father, are in Me and I in You, that they also may be in Us, so that the world may believe that You sent Me." "As Y__ sent Me i___ the w____, I also have s___ them i___ the world. For t____ sakes I s_______ Myself, that they t_________ also may be s_________ in truth. I do not a__ on behalf of t____ alone, b__ f__ those also who b______ in Me t______ their word; that t___ may a__ be o__; even as You, F_____, are in Me a__ I in You, t___ they a___ may b_ in U_, so that the w____ may b______ that You s___ Me." "As Y__ sent M_ i___ the w____, I a___ have s___ them i___ the w____. For t____ sakes I s_______ Myself, t___ they t_________ also m__ be s_________ in t____. I do not a__ on b_____ of t____ a____, b__ f__ those a___ who b______ in M_ t______ their w___; that t___ m__ a__ be o__; even as Y__, F_____, are i_ Me a__ I in Y__, t___ they a___ may b_ in U_, so t___ the w____ may b______ that You s___ Me." "A_ Y__ s___ M_ i___ t__ w____, I a___ h___ s___ t___ i___ t__ w____. F__ t____ s____ I s_______ M_____, t___ t___ t_________ a___ m__ b_ s_________ i_ t____. I d_ n__ a__ o_ b_____ o_ t____ a____, b__ f__ t____ a___ w__ b______ i_ M_ t______ t____ w___; t___ t___ m__ a__ b_ o__; e___ a_ Y__, F_____, a__ i_ M_ a__ I i_ Y__, t___ t___ a___ m__ b_ i_ U_, s_ t___ t__ w____ m__ b______ t___ Y__ s___ M_.' J____ s____ t____ t_____; a__ l______ u_ H__ e___ t_ h______, H_ s___, "F_____, t__ h___ h__ c___; g______ Y___ S__, t___ t__ S__ m__ g_______ Y__, e___ a_ Y__ g___ H__ a________ o___ a__ f____, t___ t_ a__ w___ Y__ h___ g____ H__, H_ m__ g___ e______ l___. "T___ i_ e______ l___, t____ t___ m__ k___ Y__, t__ o___ t___ G__, a__ J____ C_____ w___ Y__ h___ s___. I g________ Y__ o_ t__ e____, h_____ a___________ t__ w___ w____ Y__ h___ g____ M_ t_ d_. N__, F_____, g______ M_ t_______ w___ Y_______, w___ t__ g____ w____ I h__ w___ Y__ b_____ t__ w____ w__." B__ n__ I c___ t_ Y__; a__ t____ t______ I s____ i_ t__ w____ s_ t___ t___ m__ h___ My j__ m___ f___ i_ t_________. I h___ g___ t___ Y___ w___; a__ t__ w____ h__ h____ t___, b______ t___ a__ n__ o_ t__ w____, e___ a_ I a_ n__ o_ t__ w____. I d_ n__ a__ Y__ t_ t___ t___ o__ o_ t__ w____, b__ t_ k___ t___ f___ t__ e___ o__. T___ a__ n__ o_ t__ w____, e___ a_ I a_ n__ o_ t__ w____. S_______ t___ i_ t__ t____; Y___ w___ i_ t____." "A_ Y__ s___ M_ i___ t__ w____, I a___ h___ s___ t___ i___ t__ w____. F__ t____ s____ I s_______ M_____, t___ t___ t_________ a___ m__ b_ s_________ i_ t____. I d_ n__ a__ o_ b_____ o_ t____ a____, b__ f__ t____ a___ w__ b______ i_ M_ t______ t____ w___; t___ t___ m__ a__ b_ o__; e___ a_ Y__, F_____, a__ i_ M_ a__ I i_ Y__, t___ t___ a___ m__ b_ i_ U_, s_ t___ t__ w____ m__ b______ t___ Y__ s___ M_."|IMS-553
english|My Favorite Things||Raindrops on roses and whiskers on kittens, Bright copper kettles and warm woolen mittens, Brown paper packages tied up with strings These are a few of my favorite things. Cream colored ponies and crisp apple streudel Door bells and sleigh bells and schnitzel with noodle Wild geese that fly with the moon on their wings, These are a few of my favorite things. Girls in white dresses with blue satin sashes Snowflakes that stay on my nose and eyelashes Silver white winters that melt into spring These are a few of my favorite things. When the dog bites When the bee stings When I'm feeling sad, I simply remember my favorite things And then I don't feel so bad.|IMS-600
english|No Song At This Index||Evil Song|IMS-666
english|Do You Hear What I Hear?||Said the night wind to the little lamb, Do you see what I see? Way up in the sky, little lamb, Do you see what I see? A star, a star, dancing in the night With a tail as big as a kite, With a tail as big as a kite." Said the little lamb to the shepherd boy, Do you hear what I hear? Ringing through the sky, shepherd boy, Do you hear what I hear? A song, a song high above the trees With a voice as big as the sea, With a voice as big as the sea." Said the shepherd boy to the mighty king, Do you know what I know? In your palace warm, mighty king, Do you know what I know? A Child, a Child shivers in the cold-- Let us bring Him silver and gold, Let us bring Him silver and gold." Said the king to the people everywhere, Listen to what I say! Pray for peace, people everywhere, Listen to what I say! The Child, the Child sleeping in the night He will bring us goodness and light, He will bring us goodness and light."|IMS-700
english|Babe In The Manger||Do you worship the Babe in the manger, But reject the Christ of the Cross? Your redemption comes not by the manger, But the death of Christ on the Cross. The Babe in the manger was God's only Son, Who came to the world to die. The Babe in the manger could never have done the work of His God on high, The Babe left the manger and went to the Cross to pay the wages of sin. Your way of forgiveness is not by the Babe, But the Christ who died for your sin. If you worship the Babe in the manger, But ignore the blood of God's Son, To you Christ is only a stranger Til you trust the work He has done. The Babe in the manger was God's only Son, Who came to the world to die. The Babe in the manger could never have done the work of His God on high, The Babe left the manger and went to the Cross to pay the wages of sin. Your way of forgiveness is not by the Babe, But the Christ who died for your sin. Will you look past the Babe in the manger? Will you look to Calvary? Oh my friend can you see the danger Of a lost eternity. The Babe in the manger was God's only Son, Who came to the world to die. The Babe in the manger could never have done the work of His God on high, The Babe left the manger and went to the Cross to pay the wages of sin. Your way of forgiveness is not by the Babe, But the Christ who died for your sin.|IMS-702
english|The First Noel||The first Noel the angel did say Was to certain poor shepherds in fields as they lay; In fields where they lay tending their sheep, On a cold winter's night that was so deep. Noel, Noel, Noel, Noel, Born is the King of Israel. They looked up and saw a star Shining in the east, beyond them far; And to the earth it gave great light, And so it continued both day and night. And by the light of that same star Three Wise Men came from country far; To seek for a King was their intent, And to follow the star wherever it went. This star drew nigh to the northwest, Over Bethlehem it took its rest; And there it did both stop and stay, Right over the place where Jesus lay. Then did they know assuredly Within that house the King did lie; One entered it them for to see, And found the Babe in poverty. Then entered in those Wise Men three, Full reverently upon the knee, And offered there, in His presence, Their gold and myrrh and frankincense. Between an ox stall and an ass, This Child truly there He was; For want of clothing they did Him lay All in a manger, among the hay. Then let us all with one accord Sing praises to our heavenly Lord; That hath made heaven and earth of naught, And with His blood mankind hath bought. If we in our time shall do well, We shall be free from death and hell; For God hath prepared for us all A resting place in general.|IMS-705
english|O Holy Night||O holy night, the stars are brightly shining; It is the night of the dear Savior's birth! Long lay the world in sin and error pining, Till He appeared and the soul felt its worth. A thrill of hope, the weary soul rejoices, For yonder breaks a new and glorious morn. Fall on your knees, O hear the angel voices! O night divine, O night when Christ was born! O night divine, O night O night divine! Led by the light of faith serenely beaming, With glowing hearts by His cradle we stand. So led by light of a star sweetly gleaming, Here came the wise men from Orient land. The King of kings lay thus in lowly manger, In all our trials born to be our friend! Fall on your knees, O hear the angel voices! O night divine, O night when Christ was born! O night, O holy night, O night divine! Truly He taught us to love one another; His law is love and His Gospel is peace. Chains shall He break for the slave is our brother And in His Name all oppression shall cease. Sweet hymns of joy in grateful chorus raise we, Let all within us praise His holy Name! Fall on your knees, O hear the angel voices! O night divine, O night when Christ was born! O night, O holy night, O night divine!|IMS-709
english|Silent Night||Silent night, holy night, All is calm, all is bright Round yon virgin mother and Child. Holy Infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Silent night, holy night, Shepherds quake at the sight; Glories stream from heaven afar, Heavenly hosts sing Alleluia! Christ the Savior is born, Christ the Savior is born! Silent night, holy night, Son of God, love's pure light; Radiant beams from Thy holy face With the dawn of redeeming grace, Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth, Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth. Silent night, holy night Wondrous star, lend thy light; With the angels let us sing, Alleluia to our King; Christ the Savior is born, Christ the Savior is born!|IMS-710
english|Angels We Have Heard On High||Angels we have heard on high Sweetly singing o'er the plains, And the mountains in reply Echoing their joyous strains. Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Shepherds, why this jubilee? Why your joyous strains prolong? What the gladsome tidings be Which inspire your heavenly song? Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Come to Bethlehem and see Christ Whose birth the angels sing; Come, adore on bended knee, Christ the Lord, the newborn King. Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Gloria, in excelsis Deo! See Him in a manger laid, Whom the choirs of angels praise; Mary, Joseph, lend your aid, While our hearts in love we raise. Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Gloria, in excelsis Deo! Hark the Herald Angels Sing! Hark! The herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King; Peace on earth, and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled!" Joyful, all ye nations rise, Join the triumph of the skies; With th'angelic host proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem!" Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King!" Christ, by highest heav'n adored; Christ the everlasting Lord; Late in time, behold Him come, Offspring of a virgin's womb. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see; Hail th'incarnate Deity, Pleased with us in flesh to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King!" Hail the heav'nly Prince of Peace! Hail the Sun of Righteousness! Light and life to all He brings, Ris'n with healing in His wings. Mild He lays His glory by, Born that man no more may die. Born to raise the sons of earth, Born to give them second birth. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King!" Come, Desire of nations, come, Fix in us Thy humble home; Rise, the woman's conqu'ring Seed, Bruise in us the serpent's head. Now display Thy saving power, Ruined nature now restore; Now in mystic union join Thine to ours, and ours to Thine. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King!" Adam's likeness, Lord, efface, Stamp Thine image in its place: Second Adam from above, Reinstate us in Thy love. Let us Thee, though lost, regain, Thee, the Life, the inner man: O, to all Thyself impart, Formed in each believing heart. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King!"|IMS-711
english|Joy to the World||Joy to the world, the Lord is come! Let earth receive her King; Let every heart prepare Him room, And heaven and nature sing, And heaven and nature sing, And heaven, and heaven, and nature sing. Joy to the world, the Savior reigns! Let men their songs employ; While fields and floods, rocks, hills and plains Repeat the sounding joy, Repeat the sounding joy, Repeat, repeat, the sounding joy. No more let sins and sorrows grow, Nor thorns infest the ground; He comes to make His blessings flow Far as the curse is found, Far as the curse is found, Far as, far as, the curse is found. He rules the world with truth and grace, And makes the nations prove The glories of His righteousness, And wonders of His love, And wonders of His love, And wonders, wonders, of His love.|IMS-712
english|What Child is This?||What Child is this who, laid to rest On Mary's lap is sleeping? Whom angels greet with songs so sweet, While shepherds watch are keeping? This, this is Christ the King, Whom shepherds guard and angels sing; Haste, haste, to bring Him praise, The Babe, the Son of Mary. Why just a stall and a manger bed Where ox and lamb are feeding? Good Christians, fear, for sinners here The silent Word is pleading. Nails, spear shall pierce Him through, The cross be borne for me, for you. Hail, hail the Word made flesh, The Babe, the Son of Mary. So bring Him incense, gold and myrrh, Come peasant, king to know Him; The King of kings salvation brings, Let loving hearts enthrone Him. Raise, raise a song on high, The virgin sings her lullaby. Joy, joy for Christ is born, The Babe, the Son of Mary.|IMS-713
english|Twas In The Moon Of||Twas in the moon of wintertime When all the birds had fled, That mighty Gitchi Manitou Sent angel choirs instead. Before their light the stars grew dim, And wand'ring hunters heard the hymn: Jesus your King is born, Jesus is born, In excelsis gloria!" Within a lodge of broken bark The tender Babe was found, A ragged robe of rabbit skin Enwrapped His beauty 'round And as the hunter braves drew nigh, The angel song rang loud and high: Jesus your King is born, Jesus is born, In excelsis gloria!" The earliest moon of wintertime Is not so round and fair, As was the ring of glory on The helpless Infant there, While Chiefs from far before Him knelt With gifts of fox and beaver pelt. Jesus your King is born, Jesus is born, In excelsis gloria!" O children of the forest free, O sons of Manitou, The Holy Child of earth and Heav'n Is born today for you Come, kneel before the radiant Boy Who brings you beauty, peace and joy. Jesus your King is born, Jesus is born, In excelsis gloria!"|IMS-715
navajo|Go Tell It On The Mountain||Dzi ghaa'a goo baa da ho ne, Taa a tsogoo baa da ho ne, Dzi ghaa di baa da ho ne, Christ yizhchi, da doh ni. While shepherds kept their watching Over silent flocks by night Behold throughout the heavens There shone a holy light. The shepherds feared and trembled, When lo! above the earth, Rang out the angels chorus That hailed the Savior's birth. Down in a lowly manger The humble Christ was born And God sent us salvation That blessed Christmas morn.stmas morn.|IMS-716
english|Twelve Days of Christmas||On the first day of Christmas, my true love sent to me A partridge in a pear tree. On the second day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Two turtle doves, And a partridge in a pear tree. On the third day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Six geese a-laying, F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Seven swans a-swimming, Six geese a-laying, F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, six-geese a laying F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, six-geese a laying F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the tenth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Ten lords a-leaping, Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, six-geese a laying F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the eleventh day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Eleven pipers piping, Ten lords a-leaping, Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, six-geese a laying F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree. On the twelfth day of Christmas, my true love sent to me Twelve drummers drumming, Eleven pipers piping, Ten lords a-leaping, Nine ladies dancing, Eight maids a-milking, Seven swans a-swimming, six-geese a laying F-i-v-e g-o-l-d-e-n r-i-n-g-s, Four calling birds, Three French hens, Two turtle doves, A partridge in a pear tree.|IMS-717
english|Little Drummer Boy||Come, they told me, A new-born King to see, Our finest gifts we bring, To lay before the King, rum-pum-pum-pum - rum-pum-pum-pum) So to honor Him When we come. Little Baby, I am a poor boy, too, I have no gift to bring, That's fit to give our King. rum-pum-pum-pum - rum-pum-pum-pum) Shall I play for You On my drum? Mary nodded; The ox and lamb kept time; I played my drum for Him; I played my best for Him. rum-pum-pum-pum - rum-pum-pum-pum) Then He smiled at me, Me and my drum.|IMS-718
english|Up On the Housetop||Up on the housetop, reindeer pause; Out jumps good ol' Santa Claus. Down through the chimney with lots of toys All for the little ones, Christmas joys. Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Up on the housetop (click click click) Down through the chimney With good St. Nick First comes the stocking of little Nell, Oh, dear Santa fill it well. Give her a dolly that laughs and cries. One that can open and shut its eyes. Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Up on the housetop (click click click) Down through the chimney With good St. Nick Look in the stocking of little Will Oh just see what a glorious fill! Here is a hammer and lots of tacks, A whistle, and a ball and a whip that cracks! Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Ho Ho Ho! Who wouldn't go? Up on the housetop (click click click) Down through the chimney With good St. Nick|IMS-719
english|God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen||God rest ye merry, gentlemen Let nothing you dismay Remember Christ our Savior Was born on Christmas Day To save us all from Satan's pow'r When we were gone astray O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy In Bethlehem,in Israel, This blessed Babe was born And laid within a manger Upon this blessed morn For which His mother Mary Did nothing take in scorn O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy From God our heavenly Father A blessed angel came; And unto certain shepherds Brought tidings of the same: How that in Bethlehem was born The Son of God by name. O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy Fear not then," said the angel, Let nothing you affright, This day is born a Savior Of a pure virgin bright, To free all those who trust in Him From Satan's power and might." O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy The shepherds at those tidings Rejoiced much in mind, And left their flocks a-feeding In temptest,storm and wind: And went to Bethlehem straightway The Son of God to find. O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy And when they came to Bethlehem Where our dear Savior lay, They found Him in a manger, Where oxen feed on hay; His mother Mary kneeling down, Unto the Lord did pray. O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy Now to the Lord sing praises, All you within this place, And with true love and brotherhood Each other now embrace; This holy tide of Christmas All other doth deface O tidings of comfort and joy, Comfort and joy O tidings of comfort and joy                       B 7 %     O f   a   p u r e   v i r g i n   b r i g h t ,           A m                               G %     T o   f r e e   a l l   t h o s e   w h o   t r u s t   i n   H i m               E m                           D %     F r o m   S a t a n ' s   p o w e r   a n d   m i g h t . "     =     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y ,     C o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     =     E m %     T h e   s h e p h e r d s   a t   t h o s e   t i d i n g s                 C                               B 7 %     R e j o i c e d   m u c h   i n   m i n d ,     E m %     A n d   l e f t   t h e i r   f l o c k s   a - f e e d i n g                 C                               B 7 %     I n   t e m p t e s t , s t o r m   a n d   w i n d :           A m                               G %     A n d   w e n t   t o   B e t h l e h e m   s t r a i g h t w a y               E m                           D %     T h e   S o n   o f   G o d   t o   f i n d .     =     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y ,     C o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     =     E m %     A n d   w h e n   t h e y   c a m e   t o   B e t h l e h e m                 C                               B 7 %     W h e r e   o u r   d e a r   S a v i o r   l a y ,     E m %     T h e y   f o u n d   H i m   i n   a   m a n g e r ,                 C                               B 7 %     W h e r e   o x e n   f e e d   o n   h a y ;           A m                               G %     H i s   m o t h e r   M a r y   k n e e l i n g   d o w n ,               E m                           D %     U n t o   t h e   L o r d   d i d   p r a y .     =     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y ,     C o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     =     E m %     N o w   t o   t h e   L o r d   s i n g   p r a i s e s ,                 C                               B 7 %     A l l   y o u   w i t h i n   t h i s   p l a c e ,     E m %     A n d   w i t h   t r u e   l o v e   a n d   b r o t h e r h o o d                 C                               B 7 %     E a c h   o t h e r   n o w   e m b r a c e ;         A m                               G %     T h i s   h o l y   t i d e   o f   C h r i s t m a s               E m                           D %     A l l   o t h e r   d o t h   d e f a c e     =     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y ,     C o m f o r t   a n d   j o y     O   t i d i n g s   o f   c o m f o r t   a n d   j o y |IMS-720
navajo|Ashkii sa Yihaa(Little Drummer Boy)||Hsh d'ha'n pa rum pum pum pum Naa t'a nii bi' dizh ch pa rum pum pum pum Naal yi'  li nii k pa rum pum pum pum Ni hi naa t'a nii b pa rum pum pum pum'.Ni hi  li go pa rum pum pum pum Ba a nii kai Awii; y zh pa rum pum pum pum Shaa ho joo b' n di pa rum pum pum pum Baa deesh ii   din pa rum pum pum pum Ni hi naa t'a nii b pa rum pum pum pum'  sa bee naash ni pa rum pum pum pum Ba a nii kai Am bi yzh yipa rum pum pum pum Naal dloo shii  daa n pa rum pum pum pum T'  saa' bee naash ni pa rum pum pum pum Ni zh n go dii ts'a' pa rum pum pum pum' Awii' bi h zh pa rum pum pum pum Ba a nii kai|IMS-721
english|We Wish you a Merry Christmas||We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas And a happy new year! Good tidings we bring To you and your clan We wish you a merry Christmas And a happy new year! We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas And a happy new year!|IMS-722
english|O Little Town of Bethlehem||O little town of Bethlehem, How still we see you lie! Above your deep and dreamless sleep The silent stars go by. Yet in your dark streets shines The everlasting Light; The hopes and fears of all the years Are met in you tonight. For Christ is born of Mary, And gathered all above, While mortals sleep, the angels keep Their watch of wondering love. O morning stars together, Proclaim the holy birth, And praises sing to God the King, And peace to men on earth! How silently, how silently, The wondrous Gift is giv'n; So God imparts to human hearts The blessings of His Heav'n. No ear may hear His coming, But in this world of sin, Where meek souls will receive Him still, The dear Christ enters in. O holy Child of Bethlehem, Descend to us, we pray; Cast out our sin, and enter in, Be born in us today. We hear the Christmas angels The great glad tidings tell; O come to us, abide with us, Our Lord Emmanuel!|IMS-723
english|Beautiful Star of Bethlehem||O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shining far through shadows dim Giving the light for those who long have gone Guiding the wise men on their way Unto the place where Jesus lay O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine on O beautiful star the hope of life Guiding the pilgrims through the night Over the mountains 'til the break of dawn Into the land of perfect day It will give out a lovely ray O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine on O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine upon us until the glory dawns Give us a lamp to light the way Unto the land of perfect day O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine on O beautiful star the hope of grace For the redeemed, the good and the blessed Yonder in glory when the crown is won Jesus is now the star divine Brighter and brighter He will shine O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine on O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine upon us until the glory dawns Give us a lamp to light the way Unto the land of perfect day O beautiful star of Bethlehem Shine on|IMS-724
english|Must Be Santa||Who's got a beard that's long and white? Santa's got a beard that's long and white. Who comes around on a special night? Santa comes around on a special night. Special night, beard that's white Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Santa Claus. Who's got boots and a suit of red? Santa's got boots and a suit of red. Who wears a long cap on his head? Santa wears a long cap on his head. Cap on head, suit that's red Special night, beard that's white Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Santa Claus. Who's got a great big cherry nose? Santa's got a great big cherry nose. Who laughs this way, "Ho, ho ho!" Santa laughs this way, "Ho, ho ho!" Ho, ho, ho!, cherry nose Cap on head, suit that's red Special night, beard that's white Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Santa Claus. Who very soon will come our way? Santa very soon will come our way. Eight little reindeer pull his sleigh. Santa's litte reindeer pull his sleigh. Reindeer sleigh, come our way Ho, Ho, Ho!, cherry nose Cap on head, suit that's red Special night, beard that's white Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Must be Santa, Santa Claus.|IMS-725
english|How Many Kings||Follow the star to a place unexpected Would you believe after all we've projected A child in a manger Lowly and small, the weakest of all Unlikeliest hero, wrapped in his mother's shawl Just a child Is this who we've waited for? How many kings stepped down from their thrones? How many lords have abandoned their homes? How many greats have become the least for me? How many gods have poured out their hearts To romance a world that has torn all apart? How many fathers gave up their sons for me? Bringing our gifts for the newborn Savior All that we have whether costly or meek Because we believe Gold for his honor and frankincense for his pleasure And myrrh for the cross he'll suffer Do you believe, is this who we've waited for? How many kings stepped down from their thrones? How many lords have abandoned their homes? How many greats have become the least for me? How many gods have poured out their hearts To romance a world that has torn all apart? How many fathers gave up their sons for me? Only One did that for me.|IMS-726
english|The Friendly Beasts||Jesus our brother, kind and good, Was humbly born in a stable rude, The friendly beasts around him stood, Jesus our brother, kind and good. I" said the donkey, shaggy and brown, I carried his mother up hill and down, I carried his mother to Bethlehem town, I," said the donkey, shaggy and brown. I" said the cow all white and red, I gave my manger for his bed, I gave him my hay to pillow his head. I," said the cow all white and red. I" said the sheep with curly horn, I gave him my wool for his blanket warm. He wore my coat on Christmas morn. I," said the sheep with curly horn. I" said the dove from rafters high, I cooed him to sleep that he should not cry, We cood him to sleep, my mate and I, I," said the dove from rafters high. Thus every beast by some good spell, In the stable dark was glad to tell, Of the gift he gave Immanuel. The gift he gave Immanuel.|IMS-727
english|O Come Little Children||O come little children O come one and all O come to the manger In Bethlehem's stall, And see the Lord Jesus Asleep in the hay, The little Lord Jesus Was born Christmas Day. Now "Glory to God!" Comes the song from on high. And "Peace for all mankind" We sing in reply, Then come little children, Be happy all day For Jesus, the Christ Child, Was born Christmas Day.|IMS-728
english|Hark the Herald Angels Sing||Hark the Herald Angels Sing Glory to the new born King Peace on Earth and mercy mild God and sinners reconciled Joyful all ye nations rise Join the triumph of the skies With angelic hosts proclaim Christ is born in Bethlehem Hark! The herald angels sing Glory to the new-born King." Christ by highest heaven adored Christ the everlasting Lord, Late in time behold Him come Offspring of a virgin's womb. Veiled in flesh the Godhead see, Hail th'incarnate Deity! Pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus, our Emmanuel, Hark! The herald angels sing Glory to the new-born King." Hail the heav'n born Prince of Peace, Hail the Son of Righteousness! Light and life to all He brings, Ris'n with healing in His wings. Mild He lays His glory by, Born that man no more may die; Born to raise the sons of earth, Born to give them second birth. Hark! The herald angels sing Glory to the new-born King."|IMS-729
english|March of the Kings||Three great kings I met at early morn With all their retinue were slowly marching Three great kings I met at early morn Were on their way to meet the newly born With gifts of gold brought from far away And valiant warriors to guard the kingly treasure With gifts of gold brought from far away And shield all shining in their bright array.|IMS-730
english|Born in a Barn||When I was a little kid,and I went out to play If I left the door open,my mama would say Were you born in a barn?" Were you born in a barn?" Were you born in a barn?" Were you born in a barn?" But I see in the Bible in the Christmas story When Jesus came, He didn't come in glory He was born in a barn (echo) 2X He was born in a barn Like the angels promise was spoken He was born in a barn And the power of sin is broken He was born in a barn So the door is open It was a humble way for a King to begin But His mom and dad couldn't Get a room in the inn So He was born in a barn (echo) He was born in a barn (echo) So Mary and Joseph made a bed out of hay And the angels sang about it anyway He was born in a barn (echo) 2X He was born in a barn, No palace hall He was born in a barn, No hospital He was born in a barn For you and me He was born in a barn To set us free So when you open a door remember how The door to Heaven is open now Cause He was born in a barn (echo) 2X He was born in a barn Like the angels promise was spoken He was born in a barn And the power of sin is broken He was born in a barn So the door is open He was born in a barn So the door is open|IMS-731
english|Come On, Ring Those Bells||Everybody likes to take a holiday Everybody likes to take a rest Spending time together with the family Sharing lots of love and happiness Come on, ring those bells Light the Christmas tree Jesus is the King Born for you and me Come on, ring those bells Everybody say Jesus, we remember this, Your birthday Celebrations come because of something good Celebrations we love to recall Mary had a baby boy in Bethlehem The greatest celebration of them all Jesus we remember this, Your birthday Come on, y'all, let's ring those bells!|IMS-732
english|Beautiful Star of Bethlehem||Oh beautiful star of Bethlehem, Shining afar thru shadows dim, Giving a light for those Who long have gone And guiding the wise men on their way Unto the place where Jesus lay, Beautiful star of Bethlehem, shine on. Oh beautiful star (beautiful beautiful star) Of Bethlehem (star of Bethlehem) Shine upon us until the glory dawn Oh give us thy light to light the way Into the land of perfect day, Beautiful star of Bethlehem, shine on. Oh beautiful star, the hope of light, Guiding the pilgrim thru the night Over the mountain till the break of dawn And into the light of perfect day It will give out a lovely ray, Beautiful star of Bethlehem, shine on. Oh beautiful star, the hope of rest, For the redeemed, the good, and blest, Yonder in glory when the crown is won, For Jesus is now that Star divine, Brighter and brighter He will shine, Beautiful star of Bethlehem, shine on.|IMS-734
english|Mary Did You Know||Mary, did you know that your baby boy Would someday walk on water Mary, did you know that your baby boy Would save our sons and daughters? Did you know that your baby boy has come to make you new? This child that you've delivered will soon deliver you Mary, did you know that your baby boy Will give sight to a blind man? Mary, did you know that your baby boy Would calm the sea with his hand Did you know that your baby boy has walked where angels trod? When you've kissed your little baby Then you've kissed the face of God Mary, did you know? The blind will see, the deaf will hear The dead will live again The lame will leap, the dumb will speak The praises of the Lamb Mary, did you know that your baby boy Is Lord of all creation? Mary did you know that your baby boy Will one day rule the nations? Did you know that your baby boy was heaven's perfect Lamb? This sleeping child you're holding is the great "I Am"?|IMS-735
english|Ring The Bells||Ring the bells, ring the bells, Let the whole world know Christ was born in Bethlehem Many years ago: Born to die that man might live, Came to earth new life to give, Born of Mary, born so low, Many years ago. God the Father gave His Son, Gave His own beloved One To this wicked, sinful earth, To bring mankind His love, new birth: Ring the bells, ring the bells, Let the whole world know Christ the Savior lives today As He did so long ago!|IMS-736
english|Emmanuel||Em-manu-el, Em-manu-el, Wonderful Counsel-or, Lord of life, Lord of all, He's__ the Prince of Peace, Mighty God, Holy One, Em-man - u-el, Emman- u- el,|IMS-740
english|He Shall Be Called||While shepherds watched their flocks In a land that's far away Angels sing praise to God On a day like today A babe is born in Bethlehem He shall be called Counselor For He shall understand Aching heart and silent cries The loneliness of man He shall be called Prince of Peace For He shall end all wars Bleeding hearts and bleeding land Shall end and be no more He shall be called Wonderful And wonderful shall be His name He will reign within the hearts of man And take all their guilt and pain He shall be called the Everlasting Father For men are children all Some are sons and some are slaves And His men will hear His call He shall be called the Mighty God By even those who don't believe King of Kings Lord of Lords Tears will end and all shall cease|IMS-741
english|Christmas Hallelujah||I've heard about this baby boy Who's come to earth to bring us joy And I just want to sing this song to you It goes like this, the fourth, the fifth The minor fall, the major lift With every breath I'm singing Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelu-jah! A couple came to Bethlehem Expecting child, they searched the inn To find a place for He was coming soon There was no room for them to stay So in a stable filled with hay God's only Son was born, oh Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelu-jah! The shepherds left their flocks by night To see this baby wrapped in light A host of angels led them all to Jesus It was just as the angels said You'll find Him in a manger bed Immanuel and Savior, Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelu-jah! A star shown bright up in the east To Bethlehem, the wisemen three Came many miles and journeyed long to see Him And in that place those men of old Gave frankincense and myrrh and gold To the baby and they cried out Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelu-jah! I know He came to rescue me This baby boy would grow to be A man and one day die for all creation My sins drove nails into His hands He took death's wage for every man Still every breath He drew was Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelu-jah!|IMS-742
english|No Song||New Line New Verse|IMS-763
english|O The Love of My Redeemer||Highest highs or deepest deeps Be there pain or poverty There is nothing that can keep my Redeemers love from me All alone though I may feel All this world my enemy Still theres no one that can steal My Redeemers love from me O the love of My Redeemer Never failing come what may He has purchased my forgiveness And has washed my sins away Although burdened by the weight Of great trial or tragedy None of these can seperate My Redeemers love for me Though the earths foundations shake Driving wind or raging sea Neither death nor life can take My Redeemers love from me Through this worlds few passing days And through all eternity I will never cease to praise My Redeemers love for me|IMS-777
english|Song That Never Ends||This is the song that never ends Yes, it goes on and on my friends Some people started singing it Not knowing what it was And they will keep on singing it Forever just because:|IMS-800
english|Jeremiah 29:11||For I know the plans I have for you declares the Lord plans to prosper you and not to harm you plans to give you a hope and a future Jermeiah 29:11|IMS-801
english|Our God||Water you turned into wine Opened the eyes of the blind There's no one like you None like you Into the darkness you shine Out of the ashes we rise There's no one like you None like you Our God is greater Our God is stronger God, you are higher Than any other Our God is healer Awesome in power Our God, Our God And if our God is for us Then who could ever stop us And if our God is with us Then what could stand against|IMS-900
english|Hosanna||I see the King glory Coming on the clouds of fire The whole earth shakes The whole earth shakes I see His love and mercy Washing over all our sin The people sing The people sing Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest Hosanna, Hosanna Hosanna in the highest I see a generation Rising up to take the place With selfless faith With selfless faith I see a near revival Starting as we pray and seek We're on our knees We're on our knees Heal my heart and make it clean Open up my eyes to the things unseen Show me how to love like you have loved me Break my heart for what breaks yours Everything I am for your kingdom's cause As I walk from earth into eternity|IMS-901
english|1 Peter 2:19-25||21 To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you should follow in his steps. 22 He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth. 23 When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate; when he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. 24 He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; by his wounds you have been healed. 25 For you were like sheep going astray, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls. .|IMS-997
english|All Hail King Jesus||All hail, King Jesus, All hail, Emmanuel: King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Bright Morning Star, And throughout eternity I'll sing Your praises, And I'll reign with You throughout eternity.|PCB-1
english|Shine, Jesus, Shine||Lord the light of Your love is shining, In the midst of the darkness shining; Jesus, Light of the world, shine upon us; Set us free by the truth You now bring us, Shine on me, shine on me. Shine, Jesus, shine, Fill this land with the Father's glory; Blaze, Spirit, blaze, Set our hearts on fire. Flow, river, flow, Flood the nations with grace and mercy; Send forth Your Word, Lord, and let there be light. Lord, I come to Your awesome presence, From the shadows into Your radiance; By the blood I may enter Your brightness, Search me, try me, consume all my darkness, Shine on me, shine on me. As we gaze on Your kingly brightness, So our faces display Your likeness; Ever changing from glory to glory, Mirror'd here may our lives tell Your story, Shine on me, shine on me.|PCB-2
english|Lord, You Are So Precious To Me||Lord, You are so precious to me; Lord, You are so precious to me. And I love You, yes, I love You, Because You first loved me. Lord, You are so gracious to me; Lord, You are so gracious to me. And I love You, yes, I love You, Because You first loved me.|PCB-3
english|All Heaven Declares||All heaven declares the glory of the Risen Lord; Who can compare with the beauty of the Lord? Forever He will be the Lamb upon the throne; I gladly bow the knee and worship Him alone. I will proclaim the glory of the Risen Lord; Who once was slain to reconcile man to God. Forever You will be the Lamb upon the throne; I gladly bow the knee and worship You alone.|PCB-4
english|Come On And Celebrate||Come on and celebrate His gift of love, We will celebrate The Son of God who loved us And gave us life. We'll shout Your praise, O King, You give us joy nothing else can bring We'll give to You our offering In celebration praise. Come on and celebrate, celebrate Celebrate and sing; Celebrate and sing to the King. Come on and celebrate, celebrate Celebrate and sing; Celebrate to the King.|PCB-5
english|Blessed Be The Lord God Almighty||Father in heaven, how we love You, We lift Your name in all the earth. May Your Kingdom be established in our praises As Your people declare Your mighty works. Blessed be the Lord God Almighty, Who was and is, and is to come; Blessed be the Lord God Almighty, Who reigns forevermore.|PCB-6
english|Give Thanks||Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the Holy One, Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ, His Son. Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the Holy One, Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ, His Son. And now let the weak say, "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich because of what the Lord has done for us!" Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the Holy One, Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ, His Son. And now let the weak say, "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich because of what the Lord has done for us!" Give thanks, give thanks.|PCB-7
english|Beautiful||Beautiful, beautiful, Jesus is beautiful; And Jesus makes beautiful things in my life. Carefully touching me, Causing my eyes to see; Jesus makes beautiful things in my life.|PCB-8
english|I Exalt Thee||For Thou, O Lord, art high Above all the earth, Thou art exalted far above all gods. For Thou, O Lord, art high Above all the earth, Thou art exalted far above all gods. I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, O Lord. I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, O Lord.|PCB-9
english|Everlasting Father||Everlasting Father, Ruling now in holiness above. Everlasting Father, Lord of truth and perfect love. We worship You, we worship You, We worship You, our Father. We worship You, we worship You, We worship You, Almighty God. Everlasting Father, All the angels bow beforeYour throne. Everlasting Father, All creation worships You alone.|PCB-10
english|Great is the Lord||Great is the Lord, He is holy and just, By His power we trust in His love. Great is the Lord, He is faithful and true, By His mercy He proves He is love. Great is the Lord and worthy of glory; Great is the Lord and worthy of praise. Great is the Lord, now lift up your voice, Now lift up your voice, Great is the Lord! Great is the Lord! Great is the Lord, He is holy and just, By His power we trust in His love. Great is the Lord, He is faithful and true, By His mercy He proves He is love. Great are You, Lord, and worthy of glory; Great are You, Lord, and worthy of praise. Great are You, Lord, I lift up my voice, I lift up my voice, Great are You, Lord! Great are You, Lord!|PCB-11
english|Most Holy One||Holy One, Most Holy One, Your ways are higher than mine. Holy One, Most Holy One, May Your ways be mine. Your ways are higher than the mountains, Your love is deeper than the sea. Your mercy, flowing like a fountain, Has touched my heart and made me free. Holy One, Most Holy One, Your ways are higher than mine Holy One, Most Holy One, May Your ways be mine.|PCB-12
english|How Great You Are||You are deserving of all the praise, Lord, And I am yearning to be in Your presence once more. Deep inside my heart is burning, I want to give You more, For You're the only one that I adore. How great You are, How great You are; You are the mighty king, And You've come to reign in me. How great You are, How great You are; I give You all the praises of my heart.|PCB-13
english|For His Name is Exalted||For His name is exalted, His glory above heaven and earth. Holy is the Lord God almighty Who was and Who is and Who is to come. For His name is exalted, His glory above heaven and earth. Holy is the Lord God almighty Who sitteth on the throne and Who lives forevermore.|PCB-14
english|Come into His Presence||Come into His presence With thanksgiving in your heart And give Him praise, and give Him praise. Come into His presence With thanksgiving in your heart Your voices raise, Your voices raise. Give glory and honor and power unto Him, Jesus, the name above all names.|PCB-15
english|As We Gather||As we gather may Your Spirit work within us, As we gather may we glorify your name. Knowing well that as our hearts begin to worship We'll be blessed because we came, We'll be blessed because we came.|PCB-16
english|Hallowed Be Thy Name||You are Love, You are Life, You are Lord over ev'rything. Alpha, Omega, Jehovah, the King of kings. Wonderful, Way-maker, Worthy of my offering, Hallowed be Thy name. You're the answer to all my problems and you solve them. Hallowed be Thy name. You supply all my needs and I call You Abba Father. Hallowed be Thy name. You're my Almighty Fortress in time of tribulation. Hallowed be Thy name. And I'm more than a conqueror in ev'ry situation. Hallowed be Thy name. You are Love, You are Life, You are Lord over ev'rything. Alpha, Omega, Jehovah, the King of kings. Wonderful, Way-maker, Worthy of my offering, Hallowed be Thy name. You're the only God and there is no other Hallowed be Thy name. Now, ten thousand angels couldn't tell how much I love You. Hallowed be Thy name. Well, I'm gonna lift You up, lift You higher and higher. Hallowed be Thy name. And then ev'ryone will see that You've set my soul on fire. Hallowed be Thy name. You are Love, You are Life, You are Lord over ev'rything. Alpha, Omega, Jehovah, the King of kings. Wonderful, Way-maker, Worthy of my offering, Hallowed be Thy name.|PCB-17
english|He Has Made Me Glad||I will enter His gates With thanksgiving in my heart, I will enter His courts with praise. I will say, This is the day that the Lord has made, I will rejoice for He has made me glad." He has made me glad, He has made me glad, I will rejoice for He has made me glad.|PCB-18
english|Hallelujah, Our God Reigns||Hallelujah for the Lord our God, the almighty reigns! Hallelujah for the Lord our God, the almighty reigns! Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory unto Him. Hallelujah for the Lord our God, the almighty reigns!|PCB-19
english|Because He Lives||Because He lives I can face tomorrow. Because He lives all fear is gone. Because I know He holds the future, And life is worth the living, Just because He lives.|PCB-20
english|I Love You Lord||I love you Lord And I lift my voice To worship You Oh my soul rejoice Take joy my King In what You hear May it be a sweet, sweet sound In Your ear|PCB-21
english|This is What I Believe||I believe in God, the Father, Maker of heaven and earth; And in Jesus, His only Son, Born of virgin birth. On a cross He was crucified, He descended into Hell; But the third day Jesus rose again, He's alive and well. This is what I believe, It is written on my heart. This is what I believe, Ev'ry promise, ev'ry part. This is what I believe. I believe the Lord's in heaven, Worship in majesty there; I believe He'll come again And meet us in the air. I believe He's in the Church To keep us on the way; Leading onward in the truth to that great Eternal Day. This is what I believe, It is written on my heart. This is what I believe, Ev'ry promise, ev'ry part. This is what I believe.|PCB-22
english|A Shield About Me||Thou, O Lord, are a shield about me, You're my glory and the lifter of my head. Thou, O Lord, are a shield about me, You're my glory and the lifter of my head. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! You're the lifter of my head. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! You're the lifter of my head.|PCB-23
english|To The Lamb||To the Lamb upon the throne, Be the praise forevermore. Be the power and the glory, Be the strength and majesty. We worship Thee, O Lamb of God, The Living Word. We lift your name and worship Thee. Ancient of Days, we give You praise, O Lamb upon the Throne Son of God, Son of Man, You became the Spotless Lamb; Suff'ring for me, You showed me mercy, Now You reign in Majesty. We worship Thee, O Lamb of God, The Living Word. We lift your name and worship Thee. Ancient of Days, we give You praise, O Lamb upon the Throne.|PCB-24
english|Be Exalted, O God||I will give thanks to Thee, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to Thee Among the nations. For Thy steadfast love is great, Is great to the heavens; And Thy faithfulness, Thy faithfulness to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, Let Thy glory be over all the earth.|PCB-25
english|In Him We Live||In Him we live and move and have our being. In Him we live and move and have our being. Make a joyful noise! Sing unto the Lord! Tell Him of your love, Dance before Him. Make a joyful noise! Sing unto the Lord! Tell Him of your love, hallelujah!|PCB-26
english|I Will Rejoice||I will rejoice, I will rejoice, I will rejoice for I've made my choice to rejoice in the Lord.|PCB-27
english|As The Deer||As the deer panteth for the water, So my soul longeth after Thee. You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship Thee. You alone are my Strength, my Shield, To You alone may my spirit yield. You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship Thee. You're my friend, and You are my brother Even though You are a King. I love You more than any other, So much more than anything. You alone are my Strength, my Shield, To You alone may my spirit yield. You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship Thee. I want You more than gold or silver, Only You can satisfy. You alone are the real joy-giver, And the apple of my eye. You alone are my Strength, my Shield, To You alone may my spirit yield. You alone are my heart's desire And I long to worship Thee.|PCB-28
english|It Is Good To Praise The Lord||It is good to praise the Lord, It is good to gaze upon His majesty; To proclaim his love in the morning, And his faithfulness at night. Oh, it is good to worship and praise the Lord.|PCB-29
english|Everything's Gonna Be Alright In Christ||When you need a hand to hold, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! Take His Word and fill your soul, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! Lift your hands and praise His name, For eternity, the same. His mercies we proclaim, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! When your troubles leave you numb, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! By His blood you will overcome, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! Lift your hands and praise His name, For eternity, the same. His mercies we proclaim, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! If you feel you're sinking fast Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! He will give you peace that lasts, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ! Lift your hands and praise His name, For eternity, the same. His mercies we proclaim, Ev'rything's gonna be alright in Christ!|PCB-30
english|I Take Refuge in You||I take refuge in You. Yeshua, I find comfort in You. You alone are God, my deliverer, In the shelter of Your arms I hide. I take refuge in You. Messiah, I find comfort in You. Ev'ryone who hopes in Your steadfast love Will find a place of refuge in You. Turn to me and be gracious to me, Lord. Touch my heart for I am broken. In Your mercy come and heal my distress, And forgive all my sin. Lord forgive all my sin. I take refuge in You. Yeshua, I find comfort in You. You alone are God, my deliverer, In the shelter of Your arms I hide. I take refuge in YOu. Messiah, I find comfort in You. Ev'ryone who hopes in Your steadfast love Will find a place of refuge in You. I will fix my eyes upon the Lord, my God. You alone are my salvation. Guard my life and save me from the enemy. I take refuge in You. I take refuge in You. I take refuge in You. Yeshua, I find comfort in You. You alone are God, my deliverer, In the shelter of Your arms I hide. I take refuge in YOu. Messiah, I find comfort in You. Ev'ryone who hopes in Your steadfast love Will find a place of refuge in You.|PCB-31
english|I Really Want To Worship You My Lord||You laid aside Your majesty, Gave up ev'rything for me, Suffer'd at the hands of those You had created. You took all my guilt and shame, When You died and rose again; Now today You reign in heav'n and earth exalted. I really want to worship You, my Lord, You have won my heart and I am Yours, Forever and ever; I will love You. You are the only one who died for me, Gave Your life to set me free, So I lift my voice to You in adoration.|PCB-32
english|Jesus, Mighty God||Jesus, Mighty God, Our Rock, our Fortress, our Defense. Your conquering arm will be our strength, O God of pow'r and righteousness. And ev'ry foe will tremble at Your name! And ev'ry foe will tremble at Your name!|PCB-33
english|May Your Kingdom Come||May Your Kingdom come, (echo) May Your will be done, (echo) On earth as it is in heaven. Father, establish Your kingdom; Father, establish Your will in my life. May Your Kingdom come, (echo) May Your will be done, (echo) On earth as it is in heaven. Jesus, establish Your kingdom; Jesus, establish Your will in my life. May Your Kingdom come, (echo) May Your will be done, (echo) On earth as it is in heaven.|PCB-34
english|We've Come To Praise You||We've come to praise You, We've come to praise You, You are God, (echo) You are God, (echo) You are holy, (echo) You are holy, (echo) We've come to praise You, We've come to praise You, You are God, (echo) You are God, (echo) You are worthy, (echo) You are worthy, (echo) We've come to praise You, praise You.|PCB-35
english|Emmanuel||Emmanuel, Emmanuel; His name is called Emmanuel. God with us, revealed in us; His name is called Emmanuel.|PCB-36
english|Glory To The Lamb||To the reigning King of Heaven, Alleluia, Alleluia. To the One whose life was given, Glory to Your name. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory evermore to the Lamb Who was slain and who rose from the dead. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb, Alleluia. To the One whose blood redeemed us, Alleluia, Alleluia. To the Holy One called Jesus, Glory to Your name. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory evermore to the Lamb Who was slain and who rose from the dead. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb. Alleluia, Glory to the Lamb, Alleluia.|PCB-37
english|Protector Of My Soul||Oh, Protector of my soul, You will stand against the foe; In the dark You'll be a light for me, Oh, Protector of my soul. You, who created the ends of the earth, Guided me unto Your throne. Offered Your healing hand to me, Mercif'ly made me Your own. Oh, gracious God above, I could never earn Your love; I'm amazed to see all You've given me, Oh, gracious God above. You, who created the ends of the earth, Guided me unto Your throne. Offered Your healing hand to me, Mercif'ly made me Your own. Oh, Holy Spirit, come, Show the world where life comes from; May they always see You alive in me, Oh, Holy Spirit, come. You, who created the ends of the earth, Guided me unto Your throne. Offered Your healing hand to me, Mercif'ly made me Your own. Oh, Protector of my soul, You will stand against the foe; In the dark You'll be a light for me, Oh, Protector of my soul.|PCB-38
english|Create In Me a Clean Heart||Create in me a clean heart O God And renew a right spirit within me Create in me a clean heart O God And renew a right spirit within me Cast me not away From Thy presence O Lord Take not Thy Holy Spirit from me Restore unto me The joy of Thy salvation And renew a right spirit within me|PCB-39
english|Holy Love, Holy Light||Holy love, Holy light, Holy fire burning bright; You came to earth to live and die, That we might be forgiven. Holy love, Holy light, Holy One, We'll sing Your praise forever. Holy love, Holy light, Holy Lamb crucified; You welcome sinners to Your side, That we might be forgiven.|PCB-40
english|In His Time||In His time, in His time, He makes all things beautiful in his time. Lord, please show me ev'ry day As you're teaching me your way That you do just what you say in Your time. In Your time, In your time, You make all things beautiful in Your time, Lord, my life to You I bring, May each song I have to sing Be to You a lovely thing in Your time.|PCB-41
english|Let Us Worship Lord Jehovah||Waiting in HIs holy presence, Silent now before His throne; Let us worship Lord, Jehovah,' Bringing gifts to Him alone. We will bow before HIs majesty, Loving Him with hearts aflame; Kings and priests to serve His righteousness, We will stand and praise His name. Lifting high the royal banners, We proclaim His Kingdom reign; We will crown Him King forever, We exalt His glorious name. King and Lord of all creation, Sovereign in authority; We will never cease to praise Him, Throughout all eternity.|PCB-42
english|Bind Us Together||Bind us together, Lord, Bind us together With cords that cannot be broken, Bind us together, Lord, bind us together Bind us together with love. There is only one God, There is only one King; There is only one body, That is why I sing. Bind us together, Lord, Bind us together With cords that cannot be broken, Bind us together, Lord, bind us together Bind us together with love.|PCB-43
english|In The Lord Alone||In the Lord, the Lord alone are righteousness and strength; The height and breadth and length of love is found in Him. In the Lord, the Lord alone are righteousness and strength; In the Lord, in the Lord alone. In the Lord, the Lord alone are life and health and peace; His mercies and His loving kindness never cease. In the Lord, the Lord alone are life and health ad peace; In the Lord, in the Lord alone. In the Lord , the Lord alone is ev'rything I need; The Son of Man now reigning high will intercede. In the Lord, the Lord alone is ev'rything I need; In the Lord, in the Lord alone.|PCB-44
english|Behold What Manner Of Love||Behold what manner of love the Father has given unto us, Behold what manner of love the Father has given unto us, That we should be called the sons of God. That we should be called the sons of God.|PCB-45
english|You Are Holy||You raised the mountains up and laid the valleys low. You lift the humble heart and break the prideful soul. You chase the darkness from my life, Lord, You make me whole. You are holy, Holy is the Lord. You are holy, Holy is the Lord. You are holy, holy, Holy is the Lord. In Your power and Your glory I can see The God of love and grace who's reaching out to me. I've been made righteous by Your blood, Lord, You've set me free. You are holy, Holy is the Lord. You are holy, Holy is the Lord. You are holy, holy, Holy is the Lord.|PCB-46
english|Jesus, Name Above All Names||Jesus, name above all names; Beautiful Savior, Glorious Lord, Emmanuel, God is with us, Blessed Redeemer, Living Word.|PCB-47
english|Cares Chorus||I cast all my cares upon You, I lay all of my burdens down at Your feet; And any time I don't know what to do, I will cast all my cares upon You.|PCB-48
english|Make Your Presence Known||Gathered here together, gathered by Your grace, Having one desire, to seek Your face. United in believing, that our faith is true, Thankful in the knowledge we belong to You. We pray, make Your presence known, Make Your presence known, Make Your presence known in our hearts. When we call You answer, You will hear our cry. Like a loving Father, You dry our eyes. Fill our mouths with singing, give us ears to hear, Gather us together, please draw us near. We pray, make Your presence known, Make Your presence known, Make Your presence known in our hearts. Your presence and Your love, Assurance from above That even when alone Our hearts can be Your home. We pray, make Your presence known, Make Your presence known, Make Your presence known in our hearts.|PCB-49
english|Change My Heart, O God||Change my heart, O God, Make it ever true; Change my heart, O God, May I be like You. You are the potter, I am the clay; Mold me and make me, this is what I pray Change my heart, O God, Make it ever true; Change my heart, O God, May I be like You.|PCB-50
english|Fear Not||Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you," says the Lord. Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you," says the Lord. I have redeemed you, I have called you by name Child, you are mine. When you walk through the waters, I will be there, and through the flame You'll not (No Way!) be drowned, You'll not (No Way!) be burned, For I am with you. Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you," says the Lord. Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you; Fear not, for I am with you," says the Lord.|PCB-51
english|The Holy Heart||The Holy Heart once broken, Sent from the Father's side. The Son of God forsaken, The holy sacrifice. For me He was forsaken, For me He died alone. My sin forever taken, That I might be His own. The Holy Lamb was stricken, Abandoned and alone, He bore the world's afflicton, He bore it as His own. For me He was forsaken, For me He died alone. My sin forever taken, That I might be His own. And when my heart is broken, Torn by my sin and pride; The Son of God now risen Will draw me to His side. For me He was forsaken, For me He died alone. My sin forever taken, That I might be His own.|PCB-52
english|Great Hope||There is great hope in His name, There is pow'r to heal the lame. He will mend the broken reed, Nurse a dying wick to flame, There is great hope and pow'r in His name. There is great hope in His name, We will never be the same. We have vict'ry over sin Because Jesus lives within, There is great hope and pow'r in His name. There is great hope in His name, We will never be the same, Cause the love that conquers fear Will bring the joy of heaven here, There is great hope and pow'r in His name.|PCB-53
english|I Lift Your Name||Lord my heart can grow so far away and cold; And yet for me Your love is still the same. Lord, I bend my knee in awe and fear of Thee, My head bowed down in rev'rence to Your name. I lift Your name Your holy name, Jehovah God, Elohim. The Great I Am, the Risen Lamb, My Comforter and King. Lord, my hearts desire is to be filled with Spirit Fire. My purpose is to worship You alone. Open up my soul to worship and adore, To be a fragrance offered to Your throne. I lift Your name Your holy name, Jehovah God, Elohim. The Great I Am, the Risen Lamb, My Comforter and King.|PCB-54
english|He Is Able||He is able, more than able to accomplish what concerns me today. He is able, more than able to handle anything that comes my way. He is able, more than able to do much more than I could ever dream. He is able, more than able to make me what He wants me to be.|PCB-55
english|He is Holy||He is holy, He is holy, And we praise His holy name. He is holy, He is holy, He is holy. Exalt the Lord, our God; Worship at His throne. Praise His great and awesome name For the faithfulness He's shown. You are holy, You are holy, And we praise Your holy name. You are holy, You are holy, You are holy.|PCB-56
english|Come And Sing Praises||Ascribe to the Lord,O mighty ones, Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name, Worship the Lord In the beauty of his Holiness. Come and sing praises to the Rock of all Ages Come and sing praises to Jesus, my Lord. Come and adore Him, Bow down before Him, Come and sing praises to Jesus, our Lord.|PCB-58
english|I Will Bless The Lord||I will bless the Lord And give Him glory. Oh, I will bless His name And give Him glory. I will bless You, Lord And give You glory. Oh, I will bless Your name And give You glory.|PCB-59
english|One Song Of Praise||God of great courage, source of our strength; Grant us the spirit of unity. So that with one heart, with one song of praise We may glorify You, Lord, all of our days. God of the nations, Lord of the earth; Strengthen Your church, Lord, teach us to serve. So that with one heart, with one song of praise We may glorify You, Lord, all of our days.|PCB-60
english|I Will Celebrate||I will celebrate, sing unto the Lord, Sing to the Lord a new song. I will celebrate, sing unto the Lord, Sing to the Lord a new song. With my heart rejoicing within, With my mind focused on Him, With my hands raised to the heavens, All I am, worshiping Him. I will celebrate, sing unto the Lord, Sing to the Lord a new song. I will celebrate, sing unto the Lord, Sing to the Lord a new song.|PCB-61
english|Beloved||Beloved, let us love one another; For love is of God, And every one that loveth Is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, Knoweth not God, for God is love. Beloved, let us love one another; First John, four: seven and eight.|PCB-62
english|Righteous One||Shining like the morning sun, Jesus, the Righteous One, Clothed in majesty, splendor and glory, Jesus, the Righteous One. Righteous One, Holy Son, Flow through this vessel of mine. Filled with you shining through Flow through this vessel of mine.|PCB-63
english|The Lord Is My Light||The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. So I will not be afraid, No, I will not be afraid; Because the Lord is my light, The Lord is my light, The Lord is my light. In the day of trouble He will hide me. He will keep me safe, He will guide me through. The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. So I will not be afraid, No, I will not be afraid; Because the Lord is my light, The Lord is my light, The Lord is my light. In the darkest hour He will keep me. Evil has no power When He shelters me. The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. The Lord is my light and my salvation, The Lord is the strength of my life. So I will not be afraid, No, I will not be afraid; Because the Lord is my light, The Lord is my light, The Lord is my light.|PCB-64
english|We Believe (In God the Father)||We believe in God the Father, Maker of the universe. And in Christ, the Son, our Savior. come to us by virgin birth. We believe He died to save us, bore our sins, was crucified; Then, from death, He rose victorious, ascended to the Father's side. Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; We believe He sends His Spirit on His Church with gifts of pow'r; God, His Word of truth affirming, sends us to the nations now. He will come again in glory, judge the living and the dead; Ev'ry knee shall bow before Him, then must ev'ry tongue confess. Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Jesus, Lord of all, Lord of all; Lord of all.|PCB-65
english|I Will Sing Of The Mercies||I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever, I will sing, I will sing. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever, I will sing of the mercies of the Lord. With my mouth will I make know Thy faithfulness, Thy faithfulness; With my mouth will I make known Thy faithfulness to all generations. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever, I will sing, I will sing. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever, I will sing of the mercies of the Lord.|PCB-66
english|Jesus, Draw Me Closer||Jesus, Draw me close, Closer, Lord, to You; Let the world around me fade away. Jesus, Draw me close, Closer, Lord, to You; For I desire to worship and obey.|PCB-73
english|Bless His Holy Name||Bless the Lord, O my soul, And all that is within me, Bless His holy name. He has done great things. He has done great things. He has done great things. Bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, And all that is within me, Bless His holy name.|PCB-76
english|The Name Of The Lord||Blessed be the name of the Lord, Blessed be the name of the Lord, Blessed be the name of the Lord Most High. Blessed be the name of the Lord, Blessed be the name of the Lord, Blessed be the name of the Lord Most High. The name of the Lord is a strong tower, The righteous run into it, and they are saved. The name of the Lord is a strong tower, The righteous run into it, and they are saved. Glory to the name of the Lord, Glory to the name of the Lord, Glory to the name of the Lord Most High. Glory to the name of the Lord, Glory to the name of the Lord, Glory to the name of the Lord Most High. Holy is the name of the Lord, Holy is the name of the Lord, Holy is the name of the Lord Most High. Holy is the name of the Lord, Holy is the name of the Lord, Holy is the name of the Lord Most High.|PCB-78
english|How Excellent Your Name Is||O Lord, our Lord, How excellent Your name is, How excellent Your name in all the earth. Your glory fills the heavens beyond the farthest star, How excellent Your name in all the earth. When I think about the heavens, The moon and all the stars, I wonder what You ever saw in me; But you took me and You loved me and You've given me a crown, And now I'll praise Your name eternally. O Lord, our Lord, How excellent Your name is, How excellent Your name in all the earth. Your glory fills the heavens beyond the farthest star, How excellent Your name in all the earth.|PCB-80
english|I Will Bless Thee, O Lord||I will bless Thee, O Lord, I will bless Thee, O Lord; With a heart of thanksgiving I will bless Thee, O Lord. With my hands lifted up And my mouth filled with praise With a heart of thanksgiving I will bless Thee, O Lord.|PCB-85
english|The Lord Thy God In The Midst||The Lord, thy God, in the midst of thee is mighty, is mighty. He will save, He will rejoice over thee with joy, with joy. He will rest in His love, He will joy over thee with singing; The Lord, thy God, in the midst of thee is mighty, is mighty, is mighty.|PCB-87
english|We Have Overcome||We have overcome, We have overcome; By the blood of the lamb, By the Word of the Lord, We have overcome! Jesus Christ is King! Jesus Christ is King! As He ascends to the throne All creation bows down. Jesus Christ is King! He has overcome, He has overcome; The strong man is bound, And the vict'ry is won. He has overcome,|PCB-90
english|Great Are You Lord||Holy Lord, most holy Lord, You alone are worthy of my praise; O holy Lord, most holy Lord, With all of my heart I sing: Great are You, Lord, Worthy of praise, Holy and true, Great are You, Lord, most holy Lord.|PCB-91
english|We Bow Down||You are Lord of creation And Lord of my life, Lord of the land and the sea, You were Lord of the heavens Before there was time, And Lord of all lords You will be. We bow down and we worship you, Lord. We bow down and we worship you, Lord. We bow down and we worship you, Lord. Lord of all lords You will be. You are King of creation And King of my life, King of the land and the sea; You were King of the heaven Before there was time, And King of all Kings You will be. We bow down and we crown You the King. We bow down and we crown You the King. We bow down and we crown You the King. King of all Kings You will be.|PCB-97
english|Blessed Be The Name Of The Lord||Blessed be the name of the Lord, He is worthy to be praised and adored; So we lift up holy hands in one accord, Singing, "Blessed be the name, Blessed be the name, Blessed be the name of the Lord."|PCB-99
english|To Him Who Sits On The Throne||To him who sits on the throne And to the lamb To him who sits on the throne And to the lamb Be blessing and honor and glory And power forever and ever Be blessing and honor and glory And power forever and ever|PCB-100
english|The Trees Of The Field||You shall go out with joy And be led forth with peace The mountains and the hills Will break forth before you There'll be shouts of joy And all the trees of the field Will clap, will clap their hands And all the trees of the field Will clap their hands The trees of the field Will clap their hands The trees of the field Will clap their hands As you go out for joy|PCB-103
english|Come, Let Us Worship And Bow Down||Come, let us worship and bow down Let us kneel before the Lord, our God, our Maker Come, let us worship and bow down Let us kneel before the Lord, our God, our Maker; For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture, And the sheep of His hand, Just the sheep of His hand.|PCB-105
english|His Name Is Wonderful||His name is Wonderful, His name is Wonderful; His name is Wonderful, Jesus, my Lord. He is the Mighty King, Master of everything; His name is Wonderful, Jesus, my Lord. He's the great Shepherd, The Rock of all Ages. Almighty God is He. Bow down before him, Love and adore him; His name is Wonderful, Jesus, my Lord.|PCB-108
english|I Need You||Lord, look upon my need, I need You, I need You. Lord, have mercy now on me, Forgive me, oh Lord, forgive me And I will be clean. Oh Lord, You are familiar with my ways, There is nothing hid from You. Oh Lord, You know the number of my days, I want to live my life for You. Lord, have mercy now on me, Forgive me, oh Lord, forgive me And I will be clean.|PCB-109
english|He Is Exalted||He is exalted, The King is exalted on high. I will praise Him! He is exalted, forever exalted And I will praise His name. He is the Lord. Forever His truth shall reign. Heaven and earth Rejoice in His holy name. He is exalted; The King is exalted on high! He is exalted, The King is exalted on high. I will praise Him! He is exalted, forever exalted And I will praise His name. He is the Lord. Forever His truth shall reign. Heaven and earth Rejoice in His holy name. He is exalted; The King is exalted on high!|PCB-111
english|I Stand In Awe Of You||You are beautiful beyond description, Too marvelous for words; Too wonderful for comprehension, Like nothing ever seen or heard. Who can grasp Your infinite wisdom? Who can fathom the depth of Your love? You are beautiful beyond description, Majesty enthroned above. And I stand, I stand in awe of You, I stand, I stand in awe of You; Holy God, to Whom all praise is due, I stand in awe of You. You are beautiful beyond description, Too marvelous for words; Too wonderful for comprehension, Like nothing ever seen or heard. Who can grasp Your infinite wisdom? Who can fathom the depth of Your love? You are beautiful beyond description, Majesty enthroned above. And I stand, I stand in awe of You, I stand, I stand in awe of You; Holy God, to Whom all praise is due, I stand in awe of You. I stand in awe of You.|PCB-119
english|My Life is in You, Lord||My life is in You, Lord, My strength is in You, Lord, My hope is in You, Lord, In You, it's in You. My life is in You, Lord, My strength is in You, Lord, My hope is in You, Lord, In You, it's in You. I will praise You with all my life, I will praise You with all of my strength; With all of my life, with all of my strength, All of my hope is in you. My life is in You, Lord, My strength is in You, Lord, My hope is in You, Lord, In You, it's in You. My life is in You, Lord, My strength is in You, Lord, My hope is in You, Lord, In You, it's in You.|PCB-120
english|Glorify Thy Name||Father, we love You, We worship and adore You; Glorify Thy name in all the earth. Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name in all the earth. Jesus, we love You, We worship and adore You; Glorify Thy name in all the earth. Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name in all the earth. Spirit, we love You, We worship and adore You; Glorify Thy name in all the earth. Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name, Glorify Thy name in all the earth.|PCB-123
english|It's Time to Praise the Lord||Don't you know it's time to praise the Lord, In the sanctuary of His Holy Spirit. So set your mind on Him, And let your praise begin, And the glory of the Lord will fill this place. Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! He lives within the praises of His people, He loves to hear us call upon His name. So set your mind on Him, And let your praise begin, And the glory of the Lord will fill this place. Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord!|PCB-125
english|He is Lord||He is Lord, He is Lord, He is risen from the dead and He is Lord. Ev'ry knee shall bow, Ev'ry tongue confess That Jesus Christ is Lord.|PCB-126
english|Glorify You||We stand in awe of Your presence, And we seek Your holiness; For Your love, it is eternal, The Living Waters flow from You. Father in heaven, We've come to worship You. Holy Spirit, Teaching us to walk in you. Jesus sweet savior, We want to glorify You.|PCB-129
english|Let There Be Glory And Honor And Praises||Let there be glory and honor and praises, Glory and honor to Jesus, Glory, honor, Glory and honor to Him.|PCB-130
english|Come And See||Come and see the glory of the Lord Come behold the Lamb Come and know the mercy of the King Bowing down before Him Come and give thanks unto the Lord, Come behold the Lamb Come and sing the praises of the King Bowing down before Him For He is Lord above the heavens, Lord in all the earth; Lord of all the angels, Worthy to be served. Alleluia. Alleluia, Lord.|PCB-131
english|Romans Doxology||Oh, the depth of the riches, The wisdom of God, How unsearchable His ways. How profound are His judgments, So high above our thoughts, And His pathways no man can trace. For from Him and through Him, And to Him are all things, To Him be glory forevermore To Him be glory forever. Amen! Amen! Amen! Oh, the depth of the riches, The wisdom of God, How magnificent are His ways. Who has been His advisor And who has counseled Him, All He gives us who can repay. For from Him and through Him, And to Him are all things, To Him be glory forevermore To Him be glory forever. Amen! Amen! Amen! Oh, the depth of the riches, The wisdom of God, How immeasurable is His grace. How unfailing His kindness, so far removed His wrath, And His mercies are new each day. For from Him and through Him, And to Him are all things, To Him be glory forevermore To Him be glory forever. Amen! Amen! Amen!|PCB-136
english|King Of Kings||King of kings and Lord of lords, Glory! Hallelujah! King of kings and Lord of lords, Glory! Hallelujah! Jesus, Prince of Peace, Glory! Hallelujah! Jesus, Prince of Peace, Glory! Hallelujah!|PCB-137
english|Meet Us Here||Lord we have come to this house where we love to sing Your praises; We lift our hearts and our hands to the King of all the ages. Hear us, Lord, we pray. Come, Jesus, come, come fill this place. Meet us here, Meet us here, Lord We are few but we are strong when You surround us. Meet us here, Meet us here, Lord As we gather in Your name meet us here.|PCB-138
english|Beauty For Ashes||He gave me beauty for ashes, The oil of joy for mourning; The garment of praise For the spirit of heaviness; That we might be trees of righteousness, The planting of the Lord, That He might be glorified.|PCB-141
english|I Sing Praises||I sing praises to your name, O Lord, Praises to Your name, O Lord, For Your name is great and greatly to be praised. I sing praises to your name, O Lord, praises to your name, O Lord, For your name is great and greatly to be praised. I give glory to Your name, O Lord, Glory to Your name, O Lord, For Your name is great and greatly to be praised. I give glory to your name, O Lord, Glory to your name, O Lord, For your name is great and greatly to be praised.|PCB-144
english|I Stand Before Your Throne||I've been searching for Your will, O Lord, Since the day of my new birth. And I thank You for Your Holy Word And Your Spirit of all truth. Father God, (my Father) I stand before Your throne, (and worship) Ev'rything (my Father) In my life is known (is known) To You in Your power, majesty and grace, I long to see Your face. You provide me with an inner peace That the world cannot give Living Waters flowing through my heart Teach me all I need to live. Father God, (my Father) I stand before Your throne, (and worship) Ev'rything (my Father) In my life is known (is known) To You in Your power, majesty and grace, I long to see Your face. Lord, I knew the price You had to pay As the sacrificial Lamb. To provide a way to reach the throne Of the One who's called "I AM." Father God, (my Father) I stand before Your throne, (and worship) Ev'rything (my Father) In my life is known (is known) To You in Your power, majesty and grace, I long to see Your face.|PCB-146
english|Holy Ground||This is holy ground, We're standing on holy ground; For the Lord is here And where He is is holy. These are holy hands, He's given us holy hands; He works through these hands, and so these hands are holy.|PCB-147
english|Holy Ground||We are standing on holy ground, And I know that there are angels all around. Let us praise Jesus now, We are standing in His presence on holy ground.|PCB-148
english|The Servant King||From heav'n You came, helpless Babe, Entered our world, Your glory veiled; Not to be served, but to serve, And give Your life that we might live. This is our God, the Servant King, He calls us now to follow Him To bring our lives as a daily offering Of worship to the Servant King. There in the garden of tears, My heavy load He chose to bear; His heart with sorrow was torn, Yet not My will, but Yours," He said. This is our God, the Servant King, He calls us now to follow Him To bring our lives as a daily offering Of worship to the Servant King. Come, see His hands and His feet, The scars that speak of sacrifice; Hands that flung stars into space, To cruel nails surrendered. This is our God, the Servant King, He calls us now to follow Him To bring our lives as a daily offering Of worship to the Servant King. So let us learn how to serve, And in our life enthrone Him; Each other's needs to prefer, For it is Christ we're serving. This is our God, the Servant King, He calls us now to follow Him To bring our lives as a daily offering Of worship to the Servant King.|PCB-150
english|Father, I Adore You||Father, I adore You, Lay my life before You, How I love You. Jesus, I adore You, Lay my life before You, How I love You. Spirit, I adore You, Lay my life before You, How I love You.|PCB-151
english|Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of Hosts||Holy, Holy, Holy, is the Lord of Hosts; Holy, Holy, Holy, is the Lord of Hosts. The whole earth is full of His glory, The whole earth is full of His glory; The whole earth is full of His glory, Holy is the Lord.|PCB-152
english|Like a River||Lord, You are good and full of mercy. Lord, Your love is pure, And like a river flows From the cross to comfort and restore All who call upon You, Lord.|PCB-158
english|Awesome God||Our God is an awesome God, He reigns from heaven above With wisdom, power and love, Our God is an awesome God.|PCB-161
english|Hosanna||Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest! Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna in the highest! Lord, we lift up Your name With hearts full of praise; Be exalted, oh Lord, my God, Hosanna in the highest! Glory, Glory, Glory to the King of kings! Glory, Glory, Glory to the King of kings! Lord, we lift up Your name With hearts full of praise; Be exalted, oh Lord my God, Glory to the King of kings!|PCB-163
english|Cry of My Heart||It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life. Teach me Your holy ways, oh Lord, So I can walk in Your truth. Teach me Your holy ways, oh Lord, And make me wholly devoted to You. Oh, oh, oh! It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life. Open my eyes so I can see The wonderful things that You do. Open my heart up more and more, And make me wholly devoted to You. Oh, oh, oh! It is the cry of my heart to follow You. It is the cry of my heart to be close to You. It is the cry of my heart to follow All of the days of my life.|PCB-164
english|Humble Thyself in the Sight of the Lord||Humble thyself in the sight of the Lord. Humble thyself in the sight of the Lord. And He shall lift you up, higher and higher, And He shall lift you up.|PCB-166
english|Worthy, You Are Worthy||Worthy, You are worthy. King of kings, Lord of lords, You are worthy, Worthy, You are worthy. King of kings, Lord of lords, I worship You. Holy, You are holy. King of kings, Lord of lords, You are holy, Holy, You are holy. King of kings, Lord of lords, I worship You. Jesus, You are Jesus. King of kings, Lord of lords, You are Jesus, Jesus, You are Jesus. King of kings, Lord of lords, I worship You.|PCB-171
english|If My People||If My people (echo) Called by My name (echo) Turn from evil (echo) And seek my face. (echo) If My people (echo) Called by My name (echo) Turn from evil (echo) And seek My face. (echo) I will hear (echo) I'll forgive (echo) I will heal, (echo) Will heal their land, (echo) I will hear, (echo) I'll forgive (echo) I will heal, (echo) Will heal their land. (echo) We, Your people (echo) Called by Your name (echo) Turn from evil, (echo) And seek Your face (echo) We, Your people (echo) Called by Your name (echo) Turn from evil, (echo) And seek Your face. (echo) Hear our cry, (echo) Lord, forgive. (echo) Come and heal, (echo) Hear our cry, (echo) Lord, forgive. (echo) Come and heal, (echo) Come heal our land.|PCB-172
english|Ah Lord God||Ah Lord God, Thou hast made the heavens and the earth by Thy great power. Ah Lord God, Thou hast made the heavens and the earth by Thine outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for Thee, Nothing is too difficult for Thee. Great and mighty God, Great in counsel and mighty in deed. Nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing, Nothing is too difficult for Thee.|PCB-175
english|Lord Be Glorified||In my life, Lord, Be glorified, be glorified. In my life, Lord, Be glorified today. In Your church, Lord Be glorified, be glorified. In Your church, Lord, Be glorified today.|PCB-176
english|He Reigns||Holy, holy, holy is our Lord God Almighty. He alone is worthy, awesome Lord, Mighty King. He reigns through all the universe, His glory covers all the earth. His pow'r displayed in mighty works, And we proclaim Him as our Lord and King. Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb that was slain. Reigns in pow'r and glory, bears the name above all names. He bears the name.) He reigns through all the universe, His glory covers all the earth. His pow'r displayed in mighty works, And we proclaim Him as our Lord and King.|PCB-177
english|I Will Call Upon The Lord||I will call upon the Lord, (echo) Who is worthy to be praised; (echo) So shall I be saved from my enemies. (echo) The Lord liveth and blessed be the Rock And may the God of my salvation be exalted. The Lord liveth and blessed be the Rock And may the God of my salvation be exalted.|PCB-180
english|Isn't He Good?||The view is clear from where I stand, I can see the imprint of God's hand. From who I was to who I'll be His love and grace has delivered me. Guiding me, guarding me, Leading me, loving me. Isn't He good? Isn't He good? Hasn't He done all He said He would? All that we have, all that we are Comes from above. Isn't He good? Isn't He good? He met the need like only He could. Faithful and true to me and you. Isn't He good? The smallest voice, the biggest fear, The loving heart of the Father hears And answers each and every pray'r Of ev'ry child who's within His care. Blessing us, building us, Feeding us, filling us. Isn't He good? Isn't He good? Hasn't He done all He said He would? All that we have, all that we are Comes from above. Isn't He good? Isn't He good? He met the need like only He could. Faithful and true to me and you. Isn't He good?|PCB-183
english|Glory||Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords. Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords. Holy One, all creation crowns You, King of kings. Holy One, King of kings, Lord of lords, Holy One. Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords. Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords. Jesus, Lord, with eyes unveiled, We will see Your throne. Jesus, Prince of Peace, Son of God, Emmanuel. Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords. Glory to the King of kings. Majesty, pow'r and strength to the Lord of lords.|PCB-184
english|There is Joy in the Lord||There is joy in the Lord, There is love in His Spirit, There is hope in the knowledge of Him. There's a fountain that flows Like a river from heaven Abounding in love to my soul. All blessing and honor are His, All glory and power are His. Let all wisdom and strength Be the Lord's in this place. Let all glory be given to Him. There is joy in the Lord, There is love in His Spirit, There is hope in the knowledge of Him. There's a fountain I know Ev'ry time I am near it My heart overflows to the Lord. All blessing and honor are His, All glory and power are His. Let all wisdom and strength Be the Lord's in this place. Let all glory be given to Him. There is joy in the Lord, There is love in His Spirit, There is hope in the knowledge of Him. There's a fountain that flows Like a river from heaven Abounding in love to my soul.|PCB-186
english|White As Snow||White as snow, white as snow, Though my sins were as scarlet; Lord, I know, Lord, I know, That I'm clean and forgiven. Through the power of Your Blood, Through the wonder of Your love, Through faith in you I know that I can be White as snow.|PCB-190
english|Your Everlasting Love||Your everlasting love is higher, Higher than the sky. Your everlasting love is higher, higher, Higher than the sky, Higher than the sky. Oh,the wonder of Your everlasting love Is higher than the sky. Higher than the heavens above Is the glory of Your wonderful love. I'm lost in the mystery of Your everlasting love, Your everlasting love. Your everlasting love is deeper, deeper, Deeper than the sea. Your everlasting love is deeper, deeper, Deeper than the sea, deeper than the sea. Oh, the wonder of Your everlasting love Is deeper than the sea. Higher than the heavens above Is the glory of Your wonderful love. I'm lost in the mystery of Your everlasting love, Your everlasting love. Your everlasting love is reaching, reaching, Reaching out to me. Your everlasting love is reaching, reaching, Reaching out to me, reaching out to me. Oh the wonder of Your everlasting love Is reaching out to me.|PCB-191
english|Blessed Jesus||Blessed Jesus, come to me, Soothe my soul with songs of peace. As I look to You alone, Fill me with Your love. Glorious, marvelous grace that rescued me. Holy, worthy is the Lamb who died for me. Mountains high and valleys low, You will never let me go. By Your fountain let me drink, Fill my thirsty soul. Glorious, marvelous grace that rescued me. Holy, worthy is the Lamb who died for me.|PCB-194
english|The Lion And The Lamb||Who is He? who's the mightiest of all? Who is He? Creation trembles at His call. Who is He? The lowly sacrifice Who paid the victim's price: His name is Jesus. Jesus, from the Fathers own right hand. Jesus, Son of God and Son of man. Jesus, who died and rose again; Jesus, He's the Lion and the Lamb. Who is He with the power none can tame? Who is He when ev'ry foe would fear his name? Who is He who was humbly led away To suffer that dark day? His name is Jesus. Jesus, from the Fathers own right hand. Jesus, Son of God and Son of man. Jesus, who died and rose again; Jesus, He's the Lion and the Lamb. Who is He with the eyes that burn like fire? Who is He? Oh the wonder He inspires. Who is He? He bore the guilt and shame For the ones who'd gone astray, His name is Jesus. Jesus, from the Fathers own right hand. Jesus, Son of God and Son of man. Jesus, who died and rose again; Jesus, He's the Lion and the Lamb.|PCB-197
english|Lord, I Lift Your Name On High||Lord, I lift Your name on high, Lord, I love to sing Your praises. I'm so glad You're in my life, I'm so glad You came to save us. You came from heaven to earth to show the way. From the earth to the cross, my debt to pay. From the cross to the grave, From the grave to the sky; Lord I lift Your name on high.|PCB-199
english|Praise The Name Of Jesus||Praise the name of Jesus, Praise the name of Jesus, He's my Rock He's my Fortress, He's my Deliverer, In Him will I trust. Praise the name of Jesus.|PCB-200
english|The Strong Name Of Jesus||There is only one Lord that we cling to, There is only one truth that we claim; There is only one way that we walk in, There is only power in one name. And in the strong name of Jesus, By the blood of the Lamb, We are able to triumph, We are able to stand. In the power of His Spirit, By the strength of His hand, In the strong name of Jesus, By the precious blood of the Lamb. Though apart from Him we can do nothing, By His Spirit we can do all things; Covered by His blood, We are made righteous, Lifting up the name of Christ, our King! And in the strong name of Jesus, By the blood of the Lamb, We are able to triumph, We are able to stand. In the power of His Spirit, By the strength of His hand, In the strong name of Jesus, By the precious blood of the Lamb.|PCB-201
english|Great is the Lord Almighty||The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When the children of Israel came to the brink, He led them through letting Pharoah sink. The children were dancing as old Pharoah sank down, Lifting up a mighty joyful sound. Singing: Great is the Lord almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord almighty, He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, Great is the Lord The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When the children of God came up to Jericho town, The Lord said, "Children, lets walk around." So for seven whole days they walked around that great wall Till the Lord said, Shout! and watch it fall, children" Great is the Lord almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord almighty, He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, Great is the Lord The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. The Lord reigns. He is the mighty God. The Lord God reigns. When His children were dying and lost in their sin, My God died and He rose again; And I've been rejoicing since He took my blame. I thank You, Jesus! Praise Your name! Great is the Lord almighty. He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord almighty, He is God supreme. Great is the Lord almighty, He is Lord; He is God indeed. Great is the Lord, Great is the Lord|PCB-202
english|You Are Crowned With Many Crowns||You are crowned with many crowns And rule all things in righteousness. You are crowned with many crowns Upholding all things by Your Word. You rule in power and reign in glory! You are Lord of heaven and earth! You are Lord of all, You are Lord of all.|PCB-203
english|We Have Come Into His House||We have come into His house and gathered in His name to worship Him. We have come into His house and gathered in His name to worship Him. We have come into His house and gathered in His name to worship Christ the Lord; Worship Him, Christ the Lord. So forget about yourself and concentrate on Him and worship Him. So forget about yourself and concentrate on Him and worship Him. So forget about yourself and concentrate on Him and worship Christ the Lord; Worship Him, Christ the Lord. Let us lift up holy hands and magnify His name and worship Him. Let us lift up holy hands and magnify His name and worship Him. Let us lift up holy hands and magnify His name and worship Christ the Lord; Worship Him, Christ the Lord.|PCB-204
english|You Are My Hiding Place||You are my hiding place, You always fill my heart with songs of deliverance, When ever I am afraid I will trust in You, I will trust in You, Let the weak say, "I am strong in the strength of the Lord."|PCB-205
english|When I Look into Your Holiness||When I look into your holiness, When I gaze into your loveliness, When all things that surround become shadows in the light of You. When I've found the Joy of reaching Your heart, When my will becomes enthroned in Your love, When all things that surround become shadows in the light of You. I worship You, I worship You; The reason I live is to worship You. I worship You, I worship You; The reason I live is to worship You.|PCB-206
english|Unto Thee, O Lord||Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul; Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul; O my God, I trust in Thee, Let me not be ashamed, Let not my enemies triumph over me.|PCB-207
english|Thou Art Worthy||Thou art worthy,Thou art worthy, Thou art worthy, O Lord To receive glory,glory and honor, Glory and honor and pow'r. For Thou hast created, Hast all things created, Thou hast created all things; And for Thy pleasure, they are created, Thou art worthy, O Lord.|PCB-208
english|We Worship And Adore Thee||We worship and adore Thee, Bowing down before Thee, Songs of praises singing, Hallelujahs ringing. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Amen.|PCB-209
english|This Is The Day||This is the day, this is the day that the Lord hath made, that the Lord hath made; We will rejoice, we will rejoice and be glad in it, and be glad in it. This the day that the Lord hath made, We will rejoice and be glad in it. This is the day, this is the day that the Lord hath made.|PCB-210
english|We Praise You For Your Glory||Glory to God in the highest, Peace to His people on earth; Almighty God, the Father, the heavenly King. Glory to God in the highest, Peace to His people on earth; Almighty God, the Father, the Heavenly King. We worship You, we give thanks to You, We praise You for Your glory. We worship You, we give thanks to You, We praise You for Your glory. Jesus, our Lord, and Savior, Ruling in glory above; Author of life and creator of infinite love. We call on You now for mercy, We pray for Your healing within; O Lamb of God, so worthy, forgive us our sin. We worship You, we give thanks to You, We praise You for Your glory. We worship You, we give thanks to You, We praise You for Your glory.|PCB-211
english|Majesty||Majesty, worship His majesty! Unto Jesus be all glory, honor, and praise. Majesty, kingdom authority Flows from His throne unto His own, His anthems raise. So exalt, lift up on high the name of Jesus, Magnify, come glorify Christ Jesus, the King. Majesty, worship His majesty, Jesus, who died, now glorified, King of all kings.|PCB-212
english|Meekness And Majesty||Meekness and majesty, manhood and Deity, In perfect harmony, the Man who is God. Lord of eternity dwells in humanity; Kneels in humility and washes our feet. O what a mystery, meekness and majesty; Bow down and worship, for this is your God. Father's pure radiance, perfect in innocence, Yet learns obedience to death on a cross. Suff'ring to give us life, conquering through sacrifice; And as they crucify, prays, "Father forgive." O what a mystery, meekness and majesty; Bow down and worship, for this is your God. Wisdom unsearchable, God, the invisible, Love indestructible in frailty appears. Lord of infinity, stooping so tenderly, Lifts our humanity to the heights of His throne. O what a mystery, meekness and majesty; Bow down and worship, for this is your God.|PCB-214
english|Open Our Eyes||Open our eyes, Lord, We want to see Jesus, To reach out and touch Him, And say that we love Him. Open our ears, Lord, And help us to listen, Open our eyes, Lord, We want to see Jesus|PCB-215
english|How Majestic Is Your Name||O Lord, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth. O Lord, our Lord, How majestic is Your name in all the earth. O Lord, we praise Your name, O Lord, we magnify Your name; Prince of Peace, Mighty God, O Lord God Almighty|PCB-217
english|Our God Reigns||How lovely on the mountains are the feet of Him Who brings good news, good news. Announcing peace, proclaiming news of happiness, Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns; Our God reigns, our God reigns! He had no stately form, He had no majesty That we should be drawn to Him. He was despised and we took no account of Him, Yet now He reigns with the Most High. Now He reigns, now He reigns; Now He reigns with the Most High. It was our sin and guilt that bruised and wounded Him, It was our sin that brought Him down; When we, like sheep, had gone astray, our Shepherd came And on His shoulders bore our shame. On His shoulders, on His shoulders; On His shoulders He bore our shame. Meek as a lamb that's led out to the slaughterhouse, Dumb as a sheep before its shearer, His life ran down upon the ground like pouring rain, That we might be born again. That we might be, that we might be, That we might be born again. Out from the tomb came He with grace and majesty, He is alive, He is alive God loves us so, see here His hands, His feet, His side, Yes, we know, He is alive. He is alive, He is alive; He is alive, He is alive. How lovely on the mountains are the feet of Him Who brings good news, good news. Announcing peace, proclaiming news of happiness, Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns; Our God reigns, our God reigns!|PCB-219
english|Psalm 5||Give ear to my words, O Lord Consider my meditation. Hearken unto the voice of my cry. My King and my God. For unto Thee will I pray, My voice shalt Thou hear in the morning, O Lord, in the morning will I direct my prayer Unto Thee, and will look up.|PCB-220
english|We Will Glorify||We will glorify the King of kings, we will glorify the Lamb; We will glorify the Lord of lords, Who is the great "I AM." Lord Jehovah reigns in majesty, We will bow before His throne; We will worship Him in righteousness, We worship Him alone. He is Lord of heaven, Lord of earth, He is Lord of all who live; He is Lord above the universe, All praise to Him we give. Hallelujah to the King of kings, Hallelujah to the Lamb; Hallelujah to the Lord of lords, Who is the great "I AM."|PCB-224
english|Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus||Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face, And the things of earth Will grow strangely In the light of His glory and grace.|PCB-227
english|Therefore the Redeemed||Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall return And come with singing unto Zion, And everlasting joy shall be upon their head. Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall return. And come with singing unto Zion, And everlasting joy shall be upon their head. They shall obtain gladness and joy, And sorrow and mourning shall flee away. Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall return And come with singing unto Zion, And everlasting joy shall be upon their head.|PCB-230
english|Thy Lovingkindess||Thy lovingkindness is better than life, Thy lovingkindness is better than life; My lips shall praise Thee, Thus will I bless Thee, I will lift up my hands unto Thy name. I lift my hands up unto Thy name, I lift my hands up unto Thy name; My lips shall praise Thee, Thus will I bless Thee, I will lift up my hands unto Thy name.|PCB-232
english|There's Something About That Name||Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, There's just something about that name. Master, Savior, Jesus, Like the fragrance after the rain. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Let all heaven and earth proclaim, Kings and kingdoms will all pass away, But there's something about that name.|PCB-233
english|Thy Word||Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. When I feel afraid, Think I've lost my way, Still You're there right beside me. And nothing will I fear As long as You are near. Please be near me to the end. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. I will not forget Your love for me and yet My heart forever is wandering. Jesus, be my guide And hold me to Your side, And I will love You to the end. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path.|PCB-234
english|We Bring The Sacrifice Of Praise||We bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord; We bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord. And we offer up to You the sacrifices of thanksgiving; And we offer up to You the sacrifices of joy.|PCB-235
english|Make Me A Servant||Make me a servant, humble and meek, Lord, let me lift up those who are weak. And may the prayer of my heart always be: Make me a servant, make me a servant, Make me a servant today.|PCB-236
english|More Precious Than Silver||Lord, you are more precious than silver, Lord, you are more costly than gold; Lord, you are more beautiful than diamonds, And nothing I desire compares with you. Lord, you are more precious than silver, Lord, you are more costly than gold; Lord, you are more beautiful than diamonds, And nothing I desire compares with you. Lord you're present at the morning hours, As I watch the sun rise And Lord you're present at the noon day hour as it shines so bright. And Lord you're present at the end of the day as I watch the sun set And nothing I desire compares with you. Lord, you are more precious than silver, Lord, you are more costly than gold; Lord, you are more beautiful than diamonds, And nothing I desire compares with you. I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, I exalt Thee, O Lord!|PCB-237
english|Oh, How He Loves You And Me||Oh, how He loves you and me, Oh, how He loves you and me! He gave His life, what more could He give? Oh, how He loves you, Oh, how He loves me, Oh, how He loves you and me!|PCB-238
english|Rejoice In The Lord Always||Rejoice in the Lord always, And again I say, rejoice! Rejoice in the Lord always, And again I say, rejoice! Rejoice! Rejoice! And again I say, rejoice! Rejoice! Rejoice! And again I say, rejoice!|PCB-239
english|This Is My Commandment||This is my commandment that you love one another, That your joy may be full. This is my commandment that you love one another, That your joy may be full. That your joy may be full. That your joy may be full. This is my commandment that you love one another, That your joy may be full.|PCB-241
english|Seek Ye First||Seek ye first the kingdom of God And His righteousness; And all these things shall be added unto you, Allelu, alleluia. Man shall not live by bread alone, But by every word That proceeds from the mouth of God, Allelu, Alleluia Ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and the door shall be opened unto you, Allelu, alleluia|PCB-243
english|There Is A Redeemer||There is a Redeemer, Jesus, God 's own Son; Precious Lamb of God, Messiah, Holy One. Thank You, O my Father, For giving us Your Son, And leaving Your Spirit Til the work on earth is done. Jesus , my Redeemer, Name above all names; Precious Lamb of God, Messiah, hope for sinners slain. Thank You, O my Father, For giving us Your Son, And leaving Your Spirit Til the work on earth is done. When I stand in glory, I will see His face; And there I'll serve my King forever, In that holy place. Thank You, O my Father, For giving us Your Son, And leaving Your Spirit Til the work on earth is done.|PCB-244
english|The Sweetest Name Of All||Jesus, You're the sweetest name of all, Jesus, You always hear me when I call; Oh, Jesus, You pick me up each time I fall, You're the sweetest, the sweetest name of all. Jesus, how I love to praise Your name, Jesus, You're still the first, the last, the same; Oh, Jesus, You died and took away my shame, You're the sweetest, the sweetest name of all. Jesus, You're the soon and coming King, Jesus, we need the love that You can bring; Oh, Jesus, we lift our voices up and sing, You're the sweetest, the sweetest name of all.|PCB-246
english|What A Mighty God We Serve||What a mighty God we serve! What a mighty God we serve! Angels bow before Him, Heaven and earth adore Him, What a mighty God we serve!|PCB-248
english|Victory Chant||Hail Jesus, You're my King; Your life frees me to sing. I will praise You all my days; Perfect in all Your ways. Hail Jesus, You're my Lord; I will obey Your Word. Want to see Your kingdom come; Not my will but Yours be done. Glory, glory to the Lamb; You take me into the land. We will conquer in Your name; And proclaim that Jesus reigns. Hail, hail, Lion of Judah; How powerful You are. Hail, hail, Lion of Judah; How wonderful You are. How wonderful You are.|PCB-249
english|Micah 6:8||He has shown thee, O man what is good, and what the Lord requires of thee; He has shown thee, O man what is good, and what the Lord requires of thee; But to do justly, and to love mercy, And to walk humbly with thy God.|PCB-250
english|Be Still For The Presence||Be still, for the presence of the Lord, The Holy One is here. Come, bow before Him now, With reverence and fear. In Him no sin is found We stand on holy ground. Be still, for the presence of the Lord, The Holy One is here. Be still, for the glory of the Lord Is shining all around. He burns with holy fire, With splendour He is crowned. How awesome is the sight, Our radiant King of Light! Be still, for the glory of the Lord Is shining all around. Be still, for the power of the Lord Is moving in this place. He comes to cleanse and heal, To minister His grace. No work too hard for Him, In faith receive from Him, Be still, for the power of the Lord Is moving in this place.|PCB-252
english|Face to Face||Face to face, brother to brother, Face to face, one friend to another. Growing together we're building the Kingdom of God. Man to man, shoulder to shoulder, Man to man, serving each other. Working together we're building the Kingdom of God. Back to back, warrior to warrior. Back to back, defending each other. Standing together we're building the Kingdom of God. Face to face, shoulder to shoulder, Back to back, younger to older, Growing together we're building the Kingdom, Working together, we're building the Kingdom, Standing together we're building the Kingdom, Kingdom of God.|PCB-253
english|You Are So Faithful||Like the sun that rises ev'ry day, You are so faithful, Lord, You are faithful. Like the rain that you send, And ev'ry breath that I breathe, You are so faithful, Lord. Like a rose that comes alive ev'ry spring, You are so faithful, Lord, You are faithful. Like the life that You give to ev'ry beat of my heart, You are so faithful, Lord. I see a cross and the price You had to pay, I see the blood that washed my sins away; And in the midst of a storm, Through the wind and the waves, You'll still be faithful, You'll still be faithful. When the stars refuse to shine and time is no more. You'll still be faithful, You'll still be faithful, Lord.|PCB-254
english|We Remember You||In broken bread and the cup that we share, We remember You, In broken bread and the cup that we share, We remember You, We remember You, Jesus; We remember Your love for us. We remember the blood You shed, We remember You.|PCB-255
english|Holy, Holy Lamb||Holy, holy Lamb, Holy, holy Lamb, Who takes away the sin of the world, Holy, holy Lamb. Holy holy Lamb, Holy, holy Lamb, He's worthy of our worship and praise. Holy, holy Lamb.|PCB-256
english|Sole Desire||Chorus: Your'e the sole desire of my heart. You're the sole desire of my heart. Still more with ev'ry passing day, As things of earth just fade away, I come to know the joy of loving You. You're the sole desire of my heart. Lord, speak to me, I'm standing still, I come to hear, reveal Your will, I'll listen to Your voice and then obey. Your're the sole desire of my heart.|PCB-257
english|You Alone Deserve our Praise||Father, (echo) We love You, (echo) We are gathered here to celebrate and worship. Father, (echo) We love You, (echo) You alone deserve our praise. Jesus, (echo) We love You (echo) Perfect Lamb of God, sacrificed to save us. Jesus, (echo) We love You, (echo) You alone deserve our praise.|PCB-258
english|Your Kindness||Waiting for angry words to sear my soul, Knowing I don't deserve another chance; Suddenly the kindest words I've ever heard Come flooding through my heart. It's Your kindness that leads us to repentance, O Lord; Knowing that you love us no matter what we do. Makes us want to love You. It's Your kindness that leads us to repentance, O Lord; Knowing that you love us no matter what we do. Makes us want to love You, too. No excuse, no one to blame, nowhere to hide; The eyes of God have found my failures, found my pain. He understands my weaknesses and knows my shame, But His heart never leaves me. It's Your kindness that leads us to repentance, O Lord; Knowing that you love us no matter what we do. Makes us want to love You. It's Your kindness that leads us to repentance, O Lord; Knowing that you love us no matter what we do. Makes us want to love You, too.|PCB-259
english|Great I Am||You are the Great I AM, Forever You shall be; Let ev'ry angel sing Of Your perfect authority. Ev'ry knee will bow And ev'ry tongue confess You are the Great I Am, The First and Last. Mighty, (Mighty) Eternal, (Eternal) Immortal, (Immortal) Awesome One. (He is an Awesome One) Mysterious, (Mysterious) The Wonderful, (the Wonderful) The Holy One, (the Holy One) The Beginning and the End.|PCB-260
english|The Servant Song||Brother, let me be your servant, Let me be as Christ to you. Pray that I might have the grace to let you be my servant too. We are pilgrims on a journey, We are brothers on the road. We are here to help each other walk the mile and bear the load. I will hold the Christ-light for you, In the nighttime of your fear, I will hold my hand out to you, speak the peace you long to hear. I will weep when you are weeping, When you laugh, I'll laugh with you. I will share your joy and sorrow till we've seen this journey through. When we sing to God in heaven, We shall find such harmony. Born of all we've know together of Christ's love and agony. Brother, let me be your servant, Let me be as Christ to you, Pray that I might have the grace to let you be my servant too.|PCB-261
english|Let the Walls Fall Down||Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. By His love let the walls fall down. One by one we're drawn together, One by one to Jesus' side. One in him, we'll live forever, Strangers He has reconciled. Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. By His love let the walls fall down. In His love no walls between us, In His love, a common ground. Kneeling at the cross of Jesus, All our pride comes tumbling down. Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. Let the walls fall down. By His love let the walls fall down.|PCB-262
english|One God||Hear O Israel, the Lord, thy God, is one God, Hallelujah! Hear O Israel, the Lord, thy God, is one God, Hallelujah! And thou shalt love the Lord, thy God, With all thy heart, with all thy might. And give Him glory, King of glory, In His ways delight. REPEAT There is no other Savior, No other life redeemer. We all give our praise to You And lift our voice in declaration. Hear O Israel, the Lord, thy God, is one God, Hallelujah! Hear O Israel, the Lord, thy God, is one God, Hallelujah!|PCB-263
english|Nobody Like You||There is nobody else so worthy of praise. No one so wonderful in so many ways, oh Lord. You are the one who can claim the highest place, Up in heaven and in our hearts too. There is nobody else, oh Lord, nobody like You. These foolish earthly pow'rs parading their might Can't match the majesty of one starry night, oh Lord. You gave the word and the universe was made, You'll give the word when it's through. There is nobody else, oh Lord, nobody like You. How can we speak of love apart from Your name; As we remember when You bore all our shame? Oh, Lord. You paid our debt when You died upon the cross, And You rose again that we might live too. There is nobody else, oh Lord, nobody like You. There is nobody, there's just nobody like You. There is nobody, there's just nobody like You. Oh, Lord, nobody like You.|PCB-264
english|Ephesians 6:18||Keep on praying in the Spirit. Keep on praying in the Spirit. At all times with all kinds of prayers. Ephesians six eighteen says: Keep on praying. Keeping this in mind, Stay sharp in the Spirit. Praying all the time for the people of God. Keep on praying in the Spirit. Keep on praying in the Spirit. All all times with all kinds of prayers. Ephesians six eighteen says: Keep on praying.|PCB-265
english|He Is||He is the Lamb, He is the Shepherd, He is the Perfect Sacrifice. The great I AM, The Lord and Savior, He is Jesus Christ. (repeat) He is Jesus Christ.|PCB-266
english|Glory Glory Lord||Chorus: Glory, glory Lord, we give you glory, Lord; Glory, glory Lord, You are the mighty God. You are the mighty God. You who go down to the sea, You who live in the islands, If you live in the city, Lift your voice and sing out. Glory, glory Lord, we give you glory, Lord; Glory, glory Lord, You are the mighty God. You are the mighty God. Sing to the Lord a new song, Sing His praise to the ends of the earth; Let ev'ry nation tell it, Til ev'ry man has heard. Glory, glory Lord, we give you glory, Lord; Glory, glory Lord, You are the mighty God. You are the mighty God. You are the mighty God.|PCB-267
english|The Battle Belongs to the Lord||In heavenly armor we'll enter the land, The battle belongs to the Lord. No weapon that's fashioned against us will stand, The battle belongs to the Lord. And we sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord. We sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord. When the power of darkness comes in like a flood. The battle belongs to the Lord. He'll raise up a standard, the pow'r of His blood, The battle belongs to the Lord. And we sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord. We sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord. When your enemy presses in hard, do not fear, The battle belongs to the Lord. Take courage, my friend, your redemption is near, The battle belongs to the Lord. And we sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord. We sing glory, honor, Power and strength to the Lord.|PCB-268
english|No Way||Chorus: No way! No way! No way unto the father No way! No way! Except through Jesus Christ. He is the Way. He is the Truth. He is the Christ. The Son of God, Lord Jesus Christ. No way! No way! No way unto the father! No way! No way! Except through Jesus Christ. We lift our voice! We clap our hands! We praise your name! The Son of God, Lord Jesus Christ. No way! No way! No way unto the father! No way! No way! Except through Jesus Christ!|PCB-269
english|If We Don't Praise||If we don't sing, if we don't shout, If we don't lift up the name of the Lord; If we don't praise His holy name, Then the rocks and the stones will cry out. Oh, bless the King Who comes in the name of the Lord. Oh, bless the King, Who is worthy, worthy to bes praised. If we don't sing, if we don't shout, If we don't lift up the name of the Lord; If we don't praise His holy name, Then the rocks and the stones will cry out. Oh, bless the Lord, Lord Jesus, the Holy One. Oh, bless the Lord, He is worthy, worthy to be praised. If we don't sing, if we don't shout, If we don't lift up the name of the Lord; If we don't praise His holy name, Then the rocks and the stones will cry out.|PCB-270
english|I'm Forever Grateful||You did not wait for me to draw near to You, But You clothed Yourself in frail humanity. You did not wait for me to cry out to You, But You let me hear Your voice calling me. And I'm forever grateful to You. I'm forever grateful for the cross; I'm forever grateful to You That You came to seek and save the lost. You saw me as a pearl of the greatest price, And you gave up all You had to purchase me. I was the lost lamb that had gone astray, But You left the ninety-nine to rescue me. And I'm forever grateful to You. I'm forever grateful for the cross; I'm forever grateful to You That You came to seek and save the lost.|PCB-271
english|Planted by the Waters||Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord And whose trust is the Lord. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord And whose trust is the Lord. For he will be like a tree Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream. Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream. It will not fear when the heat comes, But its leaves will be green. It will not fear when the heat comes, But its leaves will be green. For he will be like a tree Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream. Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream. It will not worry in a year of drought Nor will cease to yield its fruit. It will not worry in a year of drought Nor will cease to yield its fruit. For he will be like a tree Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream. Planted by the water That extends its roots by a stream.|PCB-272
english|It is good to gives thanks||It is good to give thanks to the Lord, Singing praises to our God on high. Sing of mercies throughout the day, And thy faithfulness by night, And thy faithfulness by night. I will rejoice in the work of Thy hands, For Thou hast made me glad. Thine enemies scatter, they fall away, But the righteous one shall stand. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, Singing praises to our God on high. Sing of mercies throughout the day, And thy faithfulness by night, And thy faithfulness by night. From the strings of an instrument, My offering will pour, My God of Righteousness is my Rock, Exalted evermore. It is good to give thanks to the Lord, Singing praises to our God on high. Sing of mercies throughout the day, And thy faithfulness by night, And thy faithfulness by night.|PCB-273
english|I will follow||Father, always near, I wait for You here, Resting in the love that vanquishes fear. Waiting, not a care, silence ev'rywhere, Yet here in my heart a still small voice Bids me to come and I will follow. Suffer me to come, risen, wounded One, I've found shelter in Your fathering arms. Suffer me to hear Your voice in my ear Beckon me with words that draw me near, Bid me to come and I will follow. I will follow You where You want me to. I will follow You. May Your Kingdom come, may Your will be done, Father in Heaven, lift my eyes to the sky. One day I will see Heaven's Royalty, Till the day the trumpet rings in my ear. Bid me to come and I will follow.|PCB-274
english|He Will Reign||He will reign on the throne of David; He will reign, Jesus, Messiah. He will reign, glorious King and Savior; God with us, our Lord Emmanuel. At the right hand of the Father His Kingdom now and forever, forever and ever, He will reign!|PCB-275
english|Deeper and Deeper||Draw me from fear into Your faithfulness, Lead me along Your ways. Draw me from sin into Your holiness, That I may be a living praise. Draw me deeper, deeper into Your Word of truth. Draw me deeper, deeper to my love for You. Draw me deeper, deeper into the place where You are, Draw me deeper and deeper that I may know Your heart. Draw me from hate into charity, From restlessness into Your peace. Draw me from anger, Lord, into gentleness, Till ev'ry storm in my life shall cease. Draw me deeper, deeper into Your Word of truth. Draw me deeper, deeper to my love for You. Draw me deeper and deeper that I may know Your heart.|PCB-276
english|Spirit of the Living God||Spirit of the Living God, Fall fresh on me. Spirit of the Living God, Fall fresh on me. Melt me, mold me, Fill me, use me. Spirit of the Living God, Fall fresh on me.|PCB-277
english|I'm Justified||Most Holy Judge I stood before You guilty, When You sent Jesus to the cross for my sin. There Your love was revealed, Your justice vindicated; One sacrifice has paid the cost For all who trust in Jesus. Now I'm justified, You declare me righteous; Justified by the blood of the Lamb. Justified freely by Your mercy, By faith I stand and I'm justified. I come to You and I can call You Father, There is no fear, there is no shame before You. For by Your gift of grace, Now I am one of Your children; An heir with those who bear Your name And share the hope of glory. Now I'm justified, You declare me righteous; Justified by the blood of the Lamb. Justified freely by Your mercy, By faith I stand and I'm justified.|PCB-278
english|Holy, Holy, Holy||Holy, holy, holy Lord. God of pow'r and might. Heaven and earth are filled with Your glory. Hosanna! Hosanna in the highest. Hosanna! Hosanna in the highest.|PCB-279
english|Great is thy Name||Oh, Precious Lord, Great is Thy name, great is Thy name. Oh, Precious Lord, Great is Thy name in all the earth. Oh, Lamb of God, Great is Thy name, great is Thy name. Oh Lamb of God, Great is Thy name in all the earth. Great is Thy name, great is Thy name; Great is Thy name in all the earth. My Jesus, Great is Thy name, great is Thy name. My Jesus, Great is Thy name in all the earth.|PCB-280
english|Great and Mighty is the Lord our God||Great and mighty is the Lord our God, Great and mighty is He. Great and mighty is the Lord our God, Great and mighty is He. Lift up your banner, let the anthems ring Praises to our King: Great and mighty is the Lord our God, Great and mighty is He.|PCB-281
english|Even Now||Jesus, Lord of Heaven, the One who shall endure; Everlasting, ever faithful, ever pure. I know that I will see You, I believe that it is true That in Heaven's joy I'll be there close to You. How I long to see You, even now. May my eyes be open, even now. Jesus, Son of David, send Your holy light; Let me feel the warmth of Heaven deep inside. May a vision of Your glory flood my point of view As in faith I bow in prayer and look to You.|PCB-282
english|Spirit Song||O let the Son of God enfold you with His Spirit and His love, Let Him fill your life and satisfy your soul. O let Him have the things that hold you and His Spirit like a dove Will descend upon your life and make you whole. Jesus, O, Jesus, Come and fill your lambs. Jesus, O Jesus, Come and fill your lambs. O come and sing this song with gladness as your hearts are filled with joy, Lift your hands in sweet surrender to His name. O give Him all your tears and sadness, give Him all your years of pain And you'll enter into life in Jesus' name. Jesus, O, Jesus, Come and fill your lambs. Jesus, O Jesus, Come and fill your lambs.|PCB-287
english|The Lord Is Good||The Lord is good, the Lord is good, And blessed is the man who puts his trust in Him. The Lord is good, the Lord is good, Taste and see that the Lord, He is good. Taste and see that the Lord, He is good.|PCB-302
english|The Worship Song||Lord, you're worthy to be praised, And I praise You. Lord, You're worthy to bow down to, And I bow down to You. Lord You're worthy to be worshiped, And I worship You. I praise You, I bow down to You, I worship You. Lord, You're worthy to be honored, And I honor You. Lord, You're worthy to believe in, And I believe in you. Lord you're worthy to be trusted, And I put my trust in You. I honor You, I believe in You, I put my trust in You. Lord, You're worthy to be loved, And I love You. Lord, You're worthy of my life, And I give my life to You. Lord You're worthy, , oh, so worthy, And I give my all for You. I love You, I live for You, I give my all for You.|PCB-305
english|The Steadfast Love of the Lord||The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases, His mercies never come to an end. They are new ev'ry morning, new ev'ry morning, Great is Thy faithfulness, O Lord, Great is Thy faithfulness.|PCB-306
english|O Lord, You're Beautiful||O Lord, You're beautiful, Your face is all I seek. For when Your eyes are on this child, Your grace abounds to me.|PCB-310
english|The Greatest Thing||The greatest thing in all my life is knowing You, The greatest thing in all my life is knowing You. I want to know You more, I want to know You more. The greatest thing in all my life is knowing You. The greatest thing in all my life is loving You, The greatest thing in all my life is loving you. I want to love You more, I want to love You more. The greatest thing in all my life is loving You. The greatest thing in all my life is serving You, The greatest thing in all my life is serving You. I want to serve You more, I want to serve You more. The greatest thing in all my life is serving You.|PCB-311
english|Sing Hallelujah||Sing hallelujah to the Lord, Sing hallelujah to the Lord, Sing hallelujah, Sing hallelujah, Sing hallelujah to the Lord. Jesus is risen from the dead, Jesus is risen from the dead, Jesus is risen, Jesus is risen, Jesus is risen from the dead. He's coming back to take us home, He's coming back to take us home, He's coming back, He's coming back, He's coming back to take us home. Jesus is Lord of heaven and earth, Jesus is Lord of heaven and earth, Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Lord of heaven and earth. Sing hallelujah to the Lord, Sing hallelujah to the Lord, Sing hallelujah, Sing hallelujah, Sing hallelujah to the Lord.|PCB-319
english|All My Days||May this life that I live bring You praise, Blessing You and Your wonderful ways. In the work of my hands, and the words that I say, I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. I will sing to Your name when I wake, Giving thanks for each breath that I take, From the first light I see, to the last pray'r I pray, I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. All my days, all my days; I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. All my days, all my days; I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. May this life that I live make you glad, Help me praise You with all that I have. May the thoughts of my heart bring a smile to Your face, I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. Ev'ry day is a gift from Your hand, You're the Author of all that I am. Let my story be told in this heart speken phrase; I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. All my days, all my days; I will worship you, Lord, all of my days. All my days, all my days; I will worship you, Lord, all of my days.|PCB-321
english|Day After Day||Day after day after day, You have been faithful to me, Day after day after day, I've known Your grace. Day after day, Week after week, Year after year; I will declare Your glory I will declare Your greatness, I will praise Your name. Day after day after day, You are my Savior, my friend; Day after day after day, I'm not alone. Day after day, Week after week, Year after year; You will be right beside me, You will be here to guide me, I will praise Your name.|PCB-325
english|Give Thanks||Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the Holy One; Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ his Son. And now, Let the weak say "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich," Because of what the Lord has done for us. Give thanks with a grateful heart, Give thanks to the holy One; Give thanks because He's given Jesus Christ His Son. And now, Let the weak say "I am strong," Let the poor say, "I am rich," Because of what the Lord has done for us. Give thanks. Give thanks.|PCB-999
english|There Is A Fountain||There is a fountain filled with blood, Drawn from Immanuel's veins; And sinners plunged beneath that flood Lose all their guilty stains! Lose all their guilty stains, Lose all their guilty stains. And sinners plunged beneath that flood Lose all their guilty stains. The dying thief rejoiced to see that fountain in his day; And there may I, though vile as he, Wash all my sins away. Wash all my sins away. Wash all my sins away. And there may I, though vile as he, Wash all my sins away. Dear dying Lamb! Thy precious blood shall never lose its power Till all the ransomed church of God Be saved, to sin no more Be saved, to sin no more Be saved, to sin no more Till all the ransomed church of God Be saved, to sin no more E'er since by faith I saw the stream Thy flowing wounds supply, Redeeming love has been my theme, And shall be till I die. And shall be till I die. And shall be till I die. Redeeming love has been my theme, And shall be till I die. When this poor, lisping, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave, Then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing Thy power to save. I'll sing Thy power to save. I'll sing Thy power to save. Then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing Thy power to save.|HGC-1
english|May The Mind Of Christ My Savior||May the mind of Christ, my Savior, live in me from day to day, by His love and pow'r controlling all I do and say. May the Word of God dwell richly in my heartfrom hour to hour, so that all may see I triumph only through His power. May the peace of God, my Father, rule my life in everything, that I may be calm to comfort sick and sorrowing. May the love of Jesus fill me, as the waters fill the sea; Him exalting, self-abasing, this is victory. May I run the race before me, strong and brave to face the foe, looking only unto Jesus as I onward go. May His beauty rest upon me as I seek the lost to win, and may they forget the channel, seeing only Him.|HGC-2
english|Philippians 1:21||For me, to live is Christ, to die is gain. To hold His hand and walk the narrow way; there is no peace, no joy, no thrill, like walking in His will. For me, to live is Christ, to die is gain!|HGC-3
english|A Mighty Fortress||A mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark never failing; our helper He, amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing: for still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe; His craft and pow'r are great, and armed with cruel hate, on earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing; were not the right Man on our side, the Man of God's own choosing: dost ask who that may be. Christ Jesus, it is He, Lord Sabaoth, His name, from age to age the same, and He must win the battle. And tho' this world, with devils filled, should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us: the prince of darkness grim - we tremble not for him; his rage we can endure, for lo! his doom is sure, one little word will fell him. That word above all earthly pow'rs, no thanks to them, abideth; the Spirit and the gifts are ours through Him who with us sideth: let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also; the body they may kill: God's truth abideth still, His kingdom is forever.|HGC-4
english|He Is Lord||He is Lord, He is Lord. He is risen from the dead and He is Lord. Every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Coming back, coming back. He is risen from the dead and coming back. Every knee shall bow and every tongue confess when Jesus Christ comes back.|HGC-5
english|No Other Plea||My faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed; I trust the Everliving One, His wounds for me shall plead. I need no other argument, I need no other plea, it is enough that Jesus died, and that He died for me. Enough for me that Jesus saves, this ends my fear and doubt; a sinful soul I come to Him, He'll never cast me out. I need no other argument, I need no other plea, it is enough that Jesus died, and that He died for me. My heart is leaning on the Word, the written Word of God, salvation by my Savior's name, salvation through His blood. I need no other argument, I need no other plea, it is enough that Jesus died, and that He died for me. My great Physician heals the sick, the lost He came to save; for me His precious blood He shed, for me His life He gave. I need no other argument, I need no other plea, it is enough that Jesus died, and that He died for me.|HGC-6
english|Isaiah 6:1,3||I see the Lord. I see the Lord. He is high and lifted up and His train fills the temple. He is high and lifted up and His train fills the temple. And His angels cry, Holy; His angels cry, Holy; His angels cry, Holy is the Lord.|HGC-7
english|Deuteronomy 6:4-7||Hear, hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! Hear, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. Hear, hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! Hear, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! And these words, which I command you this day, shall be upon your heart. And these words which I command you this day, shall be upon your heart; and you shall teach them diligently to your children, you shall teach them diligently to your children. Hear, hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! Hear, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, the Lord our God is one Lord! And you shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way. And you shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way. And when you rise up and when you walk and when you rise up and when you walk. Hear, hear, O Israel! The Lord our God is one Lord, The Lord our God is one Lord, The Lord our God is one Lord.|HGC-8
english|1 Timothy 1:17||Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only true God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen, amen. Be honor and glory forever and ever, Amen.|HGC-9
english|Psalms 32:1-8, 10-11||How blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered! How blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit! When I kept silent about my sin, my body wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night Thy hand was heavy upon me; my vitality was drained away as with the fever-heat of summer. But I acknowledged my sin go Thee, and my iniquity I did not hide; I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the Lord"; and Thou didst forgive the guilt of my sin. Let everyone who isgodly pray to Thee. Let everyone who is godly pray to Thee in a time when Thou mayest be found; Surely in a flood of great waters they shall not reach him. Surely in a flood of great waters they shall not reach. Thou art my hiding place; Thou dost preserve me from trouble; Thou dost surround me with songs of deliverance, with songs of deliverance. I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you. He who trusts in the Lord, lovingkindness shall surround him. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, rejoice you righteous ones, and shout for joy all you who are upright in heart. And shout for joy all you who are upright in heart. Let everyone who is godly pray to Thee. Let everyone who is godly pray to Thee in a time when Thou mayest be found.|HGC-10
english|Now Thank We All Our God||Now thank we all our God with heart and hands and voices, Who wondrous things hath done, in Whom His world rejoices; Who, from our mother's arms, hath blessed us on our way with countless gifts of love, and still is ours today. We know our bounteous God, will all our life be near us, with ever joyful hearts His blessed peace will cheer us; He keeps us by His grace, and guides us when perplexed, He frees us from all ills in this world and the next. All praise and thanks to God the Father now be given, the Son, Who rose and lives, and sits in highest heaven. Our God, eternal is Whom earth and heav'n adore; now we by grace are His and shall be evermore.|HGC-11
english|Reach Out To Jesus||Is your burden heavy as you bear it all alone. Does the road you travel harbor danger yet unknown? Are you growing weary in the struggle of it all. Jesus will help you when on His name you call. He is always there hearing every prayer, faithful and true. Walking by our side in His love we hide all the day through. When you get discouraged just remember what to do, reach out to Jesus, He's reaching out to you. Is the life you're living filled with sorrow an despair? Does the future press you with its worry and its care? Are you tired and friendless, have you almost lost your way. Jesus will help you just come to Him today. He is always there hearing every prayer, faithful and true. Walking by our side in His love we hide all the day through. When you get discouraged just remember what to do, reach out to Jesus, He's reaching out to you.|HGC-12
english|O For A Thousand Tongues||O for a thousand tongues to sing my great Redeemer's praise, the glories of my God and King, the triumphs of His grace. My gracious Master and my God, assist me to proclaim, to spread through all the earth abroad, the honors of Thy name. Jesus. The name that charms our fears, that bids our sorrows cease, tis music in the sinner's ears, tis life and health and peace. He breaks the pow'r of canceled sin, He sets the pris'ner free; His blood can make the foulest clean; His blood availed for me. Hear Him, ye deaf; His praise, ye dumb, your loosened tongues employ; ye blind, behold your Savior come; and leap, ye lame, for joy. Glory to God and praise and love be ever, ever giv'n by saints below and saints above the church in earth and heav'n.|HGC-13
english|O, How I Love Jesus||There is a name I love to hear, I love to sing its worth; it sounds like music to mine ear, the sweetest name on earth O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, because He first loved me. It tells me of a Savior's love, who died to set me free; it tells me of His precious blood, the sinner's perfect plea. O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, because He first loved me. It tells me what my Father hath in store for ev'ry day, and though I tread a darksome path, yields sunshine all the way. O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, because He first loved me. It tells of One whose loving heart can feel my deepest woe, Who in each sorrow bears a part, that none can bear below. O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, O, how I love Jesus, because He first loved me.|HGC-14
english|Father You Have Sent Your Son||Father You have sent Your Son. In His dying life has come. Now my life is Yours, for He is Lord. Praise Him, praise Him, He is Lord, allelujah. Praise Him, praise Him, He is Lord, allelujah. Father You've forgiven me. Paid the debt that set me free. Now my life is Yours, for He is Lord. Praise Him, praise Him, He is Lord, allelujah. Praise Him, praise Him, He is Lord, allelujah.|HGC-15
english|Oh, Teach Me What It Meaneth||Oh teach me what it meaneth; that cross uplifted high, with One, the Man of Sorrows, condemned to bleed and die. Oh, teach me what it cost Thee to make a sinner whole; and teach me, Savior, teach me the value of a soul. Oh, teach me what it meaneth; that sacred crimson tide, the blood and water flowing from Thine own wounded side. Teach me that if none other had sinned, but I alone, yet still, Thy blood, Lord Jesus, Thine only, must atone Oh, teach me what it meaneth; Thy love beyond compare, the love that reacheth deeper than depths of self-despair, yea, teach me, till there gloweth in this poor heart of mine, some feeble, pale reflection of that pure heart of Thine. Oh, teach me what it meaneth; for I am full of sin; and grace alone can reach me, and love alone can win. Oh teach me, for I need Thee, I have no hope beside, the chief of all the sinners for whom the Savior died. Oh Infinite Redeemer, I bring no other plea, because Thou dost invite me I cast myself on Thee. Because Thou dost accept me I love and I adore; because Thy love constraineth, I'll praise Thee evermore.|HGC-16
english|Hebrews 4:14-16||Since then we have a great high priest a priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest Who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we, in all things yet without sin. Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help in time of need.|HGC-17
english|1 Corinthians 5:7 8; Matthew 21:9; Mark 11:9-10||Christ our Passover Is sacrificed for us, Therefore let us keep the feast. Blessed is He who Comes in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest! Hosanna in the highest! Alleluia. Alleluia. Alleluia. Alleluia.|HGC-18
english|He Was Wounded||He was wounded for our transgressions, He bore our sins in His body on the tree; for our guilt He gave us peace, from our bondage gave release, And with His stripes, and with His stripes, and with His stripes our souls are healed. He was numbered among transgressors, we did esteem Him forsaken by His God; as our sacrifice He died, that the law be satisfied, and all our sin, and all our sin, and all our sin was laid on Him. We had wandered, we all had wandered far from the fold of the Shepherd of the sheep"; but He sought us where we were, on the mountains bleak and bare; and brought us home, and brought us home, and brought us safely home to God. Who can number His generation. Who shall declare all the triumphs of His cross. Millions dead, now live again, myriads follow in His train. Victorious Lord, victorious Lord, victorious Lord and coming King!|HGC-19
english|Jude 24, 25||Now to Him who is able to keep you, Who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to make you stand in the presence of His glory blameless with great joy, To the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion and power, before all time and now and forever.|HGC-20
english|Holy, Holy, Holy||Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Early in the morning our song shall rise to Thee; holy, holy, holy! Merciful and mighty! God in Three Persons, blessed Trinity! Holy, holy, holy, all the saints adore Thee, casting down their golden crowns around the glassy sea; cherubim and seraphim falling down before Thee, Who wert, and art, and evermore shalt be. Holy, holy, holy, though the darkness hide Thee, though the eye of sinful man Thy glory may not see, only Thou art holy; there is none beside Thee perfect in pow'r, in love and purity. Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty! All Thy works shall praise Thy name, in earth, and sky, and sea; holy, holy, holy. Merciful and mighty! God in Three Persons, blessed Trinity!|HGC-21
english|1 Peter 1:8-9||And though you have not seen Him, you love Him, (you love Him) and though you do not see Him now, but believe in Him, (but believe in Him) You greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible you greatly rejoice with joy full of glory. Obtaining as the outcome of your faith, (of your faith) the salvation of your souls. (of your souls) You greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible you greatly rejoice with joy full of glory.|HGC-22
english|Immanuel's Land||The sands of time are sinking, the dawn of heaven breaks, the summer morn I've sighed for, the fair sweet morn awakes. Dark, dark hath been the midnight, but dayspring is at hand, and glory, glory dwelleth in Immanuel's land. O Christ, He is the fountain, the deep sweet well of love! The streams on earth I've tasted, more deep I'll drink above. There, to an ocean fullness, His mercy doth expand, and glory, glory dwelleth in Immanuel's land. Oh! I am my Beloved's, and my Beloved's mine! He brings a poor vile sinner into His house of wine! I stand upon His merit. I know no other stand, not e'en where glory dwelleth, in Immanuel's land. The bride eyes not her garment, but her dear Bridegroom's face: I will not gaze at glory, but on my King of grace not at the crown He giveth, but on His pierced hand: the Lamb is all the glory of Immanuel's land.|HGC-23
english|Ephesians 2:4,8,9||For by grace you have been saved through faith; And this is not your own doing, it is the gift, it is the gift, it is the gift of God. For God, who is rich in mercy, out of the great love with which He loved us, even though we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive, made us alive, made us alive with Christ.|HGC-24
english|Isaiah 52:7,10||How lovely on the mountains are the feet of him Who brings good news, good news. Announcing peace, proclaiming news of happiness, our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Jesus is Lord, He is Lord. Before the nations He has bared His mighty arm. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns. Our God reigns, our God reigns.|HGC-25
english|Jesus, Thou Joy Of Loving Hearts||Jesus, Thou joy of loving hearts, Thou fount of life, Thou light of men, from the best bliss that earth imparts, we turn unfilled to Thee again. Thy truth unchanged hath ever stood; Thou savest those that on Thee call; to them that seek Thee, O how good, to them that find Thee, all in all! We taste Thee, O Thou living bread, and long to feast upon Thee still; we drink of Thee, the fountainhead, and thirst our souls from Thee to fill! Our restless spirits yearn for Thee, where'er our changeful lot is cast; glad since Thy gracious smile we see, blest, since our faith can hold Thee fast. O Lord, be Thou our strength and stay. Make all our moments calm and bright, chase the dark tho'ts of sin away shed o'er us here Thy holy light.|HGC-26
english|He Owns The Cattle||He owns the cattle on a thousand hills, The wealth in every mine; He owns the rivers and the rocks and rills, The sun and stars that shine Wonderful riches more than tongue can tell, He is my Father so they're mine as well; He owns the cattle on a thousand hills, I know that He will care for me.|HGC-27
english|Like A River Glorious||Like a river glorious is God's perfect peace, over all victorious in its bright increase; perfect, yet it floweth fuller every day; perfect, yet it groweth deeper all the way. Stayed upon Jehovah, hearts are fully blest finding as He promised, perfect peace and rest. Hidden in the hollow of His blessed hand, never foe can follow, never traitor stand; not a surge of worry not a shade of care, not a blast of hurry, touch the spirit there. Stayed upon Jehovah, hearts are fully blest finding as He promised, perfect peace and rest. Every joy or trial falleth from above, traced upon our dial by the Son of Love. We may trust Him fully all for us to do; they who trust Him wholly find Him wholly true. Stayed upon Jehovah, hearts are fully blest finding as He promised, perfect peace and rest.|HGC-28
english|His Name Is Wonderful||His name is Wonderful, His name is Wonderful, His name is Wonderful, Jesus my Lord; He is the mighty King, Master of everything, His name is Wonderful, Jesus my Lord. He's the Great Shepherd, the Rock of all ages, Almighty God is He. Bow down before Him, love and adore Him, His name is Wonderful, Jesus my Lord.|HGC-29
english|Midst The Darkness||Midst the darkness, storm and sorrow, one bright gleam I see; well I know the blessed morrow Christ will come for me. Midst the light and peace and glory of the Father's home, Christ for me is watching, waiting, watching 'till I come. Long the blessed Guide has led me, by the desert road; now I see the golden towers, city of my God. There amidst the love and glory, He is waiting yet; on His hands a name is graven, He can ne'er forget. Who is this who comes to meet me, on the desert way As the Morning Star foretelling God's unclouded day! He it is who came to win me, on the cross of shame; In His glory well I know Him evermore the same. O the blessed joy of meeting, all the desert past. O the wondrous words of greeting He shall speak at last! He and I together ent'ring those bright courts above; He and I together sharing all the Father's love. Where no shade nor stain can enter, nor the gold be dim; In that holiness unsullied I shall walk with Him. Meet companion, then for Jesus, from Him, for Him made glory of God's grace forever there in me displayed. He who in His hour of sorrow bore the curse alone; I, who through the lonely desert trod where He had gone. He and I in that bright glory one deep joy shall share; mine, to be forever with Him; His, that I am there!|HGC-30
english|The Lion Of Judah||My rest is in heaven, my rest is not here, then why should I murmur when trials are near. Be hushed, my sad spirit; the worst that can come but shortens the journey and hastens me home. For the Lion of Judah shall break every chain and give us the victory again and again. It is not for me to be seeking my bliss, and building my hopes in a region like this; I look for a city which hands have not piled, I pant for a country by sin undefiled. For the Lion of Judah shall break every chain and give us the victory again and again. Let trial and danger my progress oppose, they only make heaven more sweet at the close; come joy or come sorrow, whate'er may befall, a home with my God will make up for it all. For the Lion of Judah shall break every chain and give us the victory again and again. With Christ in my heart, and His Word in my hand, I travel in haste, through an enemy's land; the road may be rough, but it cannot be long, so I journey on, singing the conqueror's song.|HGC-31
english|You Are My Hiding Place||You are my hiding place, You always fill my heart with songs of deliverance. Whenever I am afraid I will trust in You, I will trust in You. Let the weak say "I am strong in the strength of the Lord."|HGC-32
english|Lamentations 3:22-23||The Lord's lovingkindnesses indeed never cease, For His compassions never fail. They are new every morning; they are new every day; they are new every morning; great is Thy faithfulness.|HGC-33
english|Psalms 45:1-4||My heart overflows with a good theme; I address my verse to the King; my tongue is the pen of a ready writer. Thou art fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured out upon Thy lips; therefore God has blessed Thee forever, forever. Gird Thy sword on Thy thigh, O Mighty One, in Thy splendor and Thy majesty! And in Thy majesty ride on victoriously, for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness; Grace is poured out upon Thy lips; therefore God has blessed Thee forever, forever. My heart overflows with a good theme; I address my verse to the King; my tongue is the pen of a ready writer. Thou art fairer than the sons of men.|HGC-34
english|It Is Well With My Soul||When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll, whatever my lot, Thou hast taught me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul." It is well (It is well) with my soul; (with my soul) it is well, it is well, with my soul! Though Satan should buffet, though trials should come, let this blest assurance control, that Christ has regarded my helpless estate, and hath shed His own blood for my soul. It is well (It is well) with my soul; (with my soul) it is well, it is well, with my soul! My sin - Oh, the bliss of this glorious thought my sin, not in part but the whole, is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more! praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul! It is well (It is well) with my soul; (with my soul) it is well, it is well, with my soul! And, Lord haste the day when the faith shall be sight, the clouds be rolled back as a scroll, the trump shall resound and the Lord shall descend! Even so - it is well with my soul! It is well (It is well) with my soul; (with my soul) it is well, it is well, with my soul!|HGC-35
english|Philippians 4:8||Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is of good repute, If there be any excellence And if anything worthy of praise, Let your mind dwell on these things.|HGC-36
english|Jesus Saves!||We have heard the joyful sound: Jesus saves. Jesus saves. Spread the tidings all around: Jesus saves! Jesus saves. Bear the news to ev'ry land, climb the steeps and cross the waves; onward! 'tis our Lord's command; Jesus saves. Jesus saves! Waft it on the rolling tide; Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Tell to sinners far and wide Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Sing, ye islands of the sea: echo back, ye ocean caves; earth shall keep her jubilee ; Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Sing above the battle strife; Jesus saves! Jesus saves! By His death and endless life Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Sing it softly through the gloom, when the heart for mercy craves; sing in triumph o'er the tomb Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Give the winds a mighty voice, Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Let the nations now rejoice Jesus saves! Jesus saves! Shout salvation full and free, highest hills and deepest caves; this our song of victory Jesus saves! Jesus saves!|HGC-37
english|He's The Saviour Of My Soul||He's the Saviour of my soul, Jesus, Lord Jesus. He's the Saviour of my soul. He's my Lord, my life, my all. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. He's the Saviour of my soul. He's my Lord, my life, my all.|HGC-38
english|Psalms 115:1-3||Not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory Because of Thy lovingkindness, because of Thy truth Not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory Not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory Why should the nations say, Where, now, is their God?" Why should the nations say, Where, now, is their God?" But our God is in the heavens; He does whatever He pleases. Not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory Not to us, O Lord, but to Thy name give glory|HGC-39
english|Psalms 97:10-12||Hate evil, you who love the Lord, Who preserves the souls of His godly ones; He delivers them from the hand of the wicked. Light is sown like seed for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart. Be glad in the Lord, you righteous ones; and give thanks, and give thanks, and give thanks to His holy name. and give thanks, and give thanks, and give thanks to His holy name.|HGC-40
english|Psalms 100||Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye, all ye lands. Serve the Lord, the Lord with gladness; come before His presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God; it is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves; G we are His people and the sheep of His pasture. Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise. Be thankful unto Him; and bless His holy name. For the Lord, the Lord is good; His mercy is everlasting, and His truth, His truth endureth endureth to all generations. Praise the Lord (alleluiah, glory alleluiah) Praise the Lord (alleluiah, glory alleluiah) Praise the Lord (alleluiah, glory alleluiah) Praise the Lord (alleluiah, glory alleluiah) Praise the Lord.|HGC-41
english|Proverbs 4:18||The path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, the path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, It grows brighter and brighter it grows brighter and brighter it grows brighter and brighter until the light of day. The path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, the path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, It grows brighter and brighter it grows brighter and brighter it grows brighter and brighter until the light of day. The path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn, the path of the righteous is like the light of the dawn,|HGC-42
english|How Firm A Foundation||How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in His excellent Word! What more can He say than to you He has said, to you who for refuge to Jesus have fled? Fear not, I am with thee, O be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will still give thee aid. I'll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand, upheld by My righteous, omnipotent hand. When through the deep waters I call thee to go, the rivers of sorrow shall not overflow; for I will be with Thee, thy troubles to bless, and sanctify to Thee Thy deepest distress. When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie, My grace, all sufficient, shall be thy supply; the flame shall not hurt thee; I only design Thy dross to consume, and thy gold to refine. The soul that on Jesus hath leaned for repose, I will not, I will not desert to his foes; that soul though all hell shall endeavor to shake, I'll never, no never, no never forsake."|HGC-43
english|Psalms 116:12-13||What shall I give unto the Lord for all, for all, for all He's done for me? I'll take the cup of salvation, and call, and call, and call upon the name of the Lord.|HGC-44
english|Psalms 27:1||The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear. Oh, whom shall I fear? The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength, the strength of my life; of whom then shall I be afraid?|HGC-45
english|Psalms 19:7-11, 14||The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the judgments of the Lord are true; and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Let the words of my mouth, O Lord, and the thoughts of my heart be pleasing in Thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover by them is Thy servant warned; is Thy servant warned; and in keeping of them there is great reward.|HGC-46
english|Psalms 98||O sing to the Lord a new song, for He has done wonderful things, wonderful things. His right hand and His holy arm have gained the victory for Him. The Lord has made known His salvation; He has revealed His righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered His lovingkindness and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth; break forth and sing for joy and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with the lyre; with the lyre and the sound of melody. With trumpets and the sound of the horn shout joyfully before the King, the Lord. Let the sea roar and all it contains, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands; let the mountains sing together for joy before the Lord; for He is coming to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity. O al-le-lu-ja, O al-le-lu-ja, O al-le-lu-ja. O sing to the Lord a new song, for He has done wonderful things, wonderful things. His right hand and His holy arm have gained the victory for Him.|HGC-47
english|All For Jesus||All for Jesus! All for Jesus! All my being's ransomed power all my thoughts and words and doings, all my days and all my hours. All for Jesus! All for Jesus! All my days and all my hours. Let my hands perform His bidding, let my feet run in His ways; let mine eyes see Jesus only, let my lips speak forth His praise. All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Let my lips speak forth His praise. Since my eyes were fixed on Jesus, I've lost sight of all beside; so enchained my spirit's vision, looking at the Crucified. All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Looking at the Crucified. Oh, what wonder! How amazing! Jesus, glorious King of Kings, deigns to call me His beloved, lets me rest beneath His wings. All for Jesus! All for Jesus! Resting now beneath His wings.|HGC-48
english|Romans 12:9-14||Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; clinging to what is good. And be devoted to one another in brotherly love; give preference to one another in honor; not lagging behind in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving serving the Lord; Rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation, devoted to prayer, contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. Bless those who persecute you; bless and curse not. Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil; clinging to what is good. And be devoted to one another in brotherly love; give preference to one another in honor; not lagging behind in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving serving the Lord;|HGC-49
english|Be Still, My Soul||Be still, my soul: the Lord is on thy side; bear patiently the cross of grief or pain; leave to thy God to order and provide; in ev'ry change He faithful will remain. Be still, my soul: thy best, thy heav'nly Friend through thorny ways leads to a joyful end. Be still, my soul: thy God doth undertake to guide the future as He has the past. Thy hope, thy confidence let nothing shake; all now mysterious shall be bright at last. Be still, my soul: the waves and winds still know His voice who ruled them while He dwelt below. Be still, my soul: the hour is hast'ning on when we shall be forever with the Lord, when disappointment, grief, and fear are gone, sorrow forgot, love's purest joys restored. Be still, my soul: when change and tears are past, all safe and blessed we shall meet at last.|HGC-50
english|Psalms 18:46,49||The Lord lives, and blessed be my Rock; and exalted be the God of my salvation The Lord lives, and blessed be my Rock; and exalted be the God of my salvation Therefore, I will give thanks to Thee among the nations, O Lord, and I will sing praises to Thy name, among the nations, O Lord. The Lord lives, and blessed be my Rock; and exalted be the God of my salvation The Lord lives, and blessed be my Rock; and exalted be the God of my salvation Therefore, I will give thanks to Thee among the nations, O Lord, and I will sing praises to Thy name, among the nations, O Lord.|HGC-51
english|Psalms 57:7-11||My heart is steadfast, O God, O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises! My heart is steadfast, O God. Awake, my glory; awake, harp and lyre, awake, my glory, awake harp and lyre, I will awaken the dawn! I will give thanks unto Thee, O Lord, among, among the peoples; I will sing praises to Thee, O Lord, among, among the nations. For Thy lovingkindness is great to the heavens, and Thy truth is great to the clouds. Be exalted above the heavens, O God, O God; let Thy glory be above all the earth. My heart is steadfast, O God, O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises! My heart is steadfast, O God. Awake, my glory; awake, harp and lyre, awake, my glory, awake harp and lyre, I will awaken the dawn! I will give thanks unto Thee, O Lord, among, among the peoples; I will sing praises to Thee, O Lord, among, among the nations.|HGC-52
english|All Hail The Power||All hail the pow'r of Jesus' name. Let angels prostrate fall; bring forth the royal diadem, and crown Him Lord of all, bring forth the royal diadem, and crown Him Lord of all! Ye chosen seed of Israel's race, ye ransomed from the Fall, hail Him who saves you by His grace, and crown Him Lord of all, Hail Him who saves you by His grace, and crown Him Lord of all! Let ev'ry kindred, ev'ry tribe on this terrestrial ball, to Him all majesty ascribe, and crown Him Lord of all! To Him all majesty ascribe, and crown Him Lord of all! O that with yonder sacred throng we at His feet may fall! We'll join the everlasting song, and crown Him Lord of all we'll join the everlasting song, and crown Him Lord of all!|HGC-53
english|The Veil Is Rent! Lo, Jesus Stands||The veil is rent: lo! Jesus stands before the throne of grace; and clouds of incense from His hands fill all that glorious place. His precious blood is sprinkled there, before and on the throne; and His own wounds in heav'n declare the work that saves is done. 'Tis finished!" on the cross He said, in agonies and blood; tis finished! now He lives to plead before the face of God. 'Tis finished!" here our souls can rest, His work can never fail; by Him, our Sacrifice and Priest, we enter through the veil.|HGC-54
english|Psalms 37:23, 3-5||The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and cultivate faithfulness. Trust in the Lord, and do good. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. Delight yourself in the Lord; and He will give you the desires of your heart. C G C-(7) Delight yourself in the Lord. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. Commit your way to the Lord, trust also in Him, and He will do it. Commit your way to the Lord. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way. The steps of a man are established by the Lord; and He delights in his way.|HGC-55
english|Psalms 40:1-3||I waited patiently for the Lord; and He inclined to me, and heard my cry. He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay; and He set my feet upon a rock making my footsteps firm. And He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God; Many will see and fear, and will trust in the Lord. Many will see and fear, and will trust in the Lord. I waited patiently for the Lord; and He inclined to me, and heard my cry. He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay; and He set my feet upon a rock making my footsteps firm. And He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God;|HGC-56
english|Psalms 118:24||This is the day, (This is the day) That the Lord has made; We will rejoice, (We will rejoice) And be glad in it. (And be glad in it). Oh, this is the day that the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it! Oh, this is the day (This is the day) That the Lord has made. This is the day, (This is the day) That the Lord may come; Let us rejoice, (Let us rejoice) Fix our hope on Him. (Fix our hope on Him). Yes, this is the day that the Lord may come, Let us rejoice fix our hope on Him. Oh, this is the day (This is the day) That the Lord may come.|HGC-57
english|1 John 1:7||If we walk (If we walk) In the light (In the light) As He (As He) Is in the light, (Is in the light) We have fellowship with one another, And the blood (And the blood) of Jesus His Son cleanses us from all sin.|HGC-58
english|Psalms 97:9||For Thou art the Lord Most High over all the earth; Thou art exalted far above all gods. For Thou art the Lord Most High over all the earth; Thou art exalted far above all gods. I exalt You, I exalt You, I exalt You, O Most High. I exalt You, I exalt You, I exalt You, O Most High. For Thou art the Lord Most High over all the earth; Thou art exalted far above all gods. For Thou art the Lord Most High over all the earth; Thou art exalted far above all gods.|HGC-59
english|It Will Be Worth It All||Oft-times the day seems long, our trials hard to bear, we're tempted to complain, to murmur and despair; but Christ will soon appear to catch His Bride away, all tears forever over in God's eternal day. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus, life's trials will seem so small when we see Christ; one glimpse of His dear face all sorrow will erase, so bravely run the race till we see Christ. Sometimes the sky looks dark with not a ray of light, we're tossed and driven on, no human help in sight; but there is One in heav'n Who knows our deepest care, let Jesus solve your problem just go to Him in prayer. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus, life's trials will seem so small when we see Christ; one glimpse of His dear face all sorrow will erase, so bravely run the race till we see Christ. Life's day will soon be o'er, all storms forever past, we'll cross the great divide to glory, safe at last; we'll share the joys of heav'n a harp, a home, a crown, the tempter will be banished, we'll lay our burdens down. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus, life's trials will seem so small when we see Christ; one glimpse of His dear face all sorrow will erase, so bravely run the race till we see Christ.|HGC-60
english|Matthew 6:33, 7:7, 4:4||Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. Allelu, alleluia! Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and the door shall be opened unto you. Allelu, alleluia! Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Allelu, alleluia!|HGC-61
english|Blessed Assurance||Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine! O, what a foretaste of glory divine. Heir of salvation, purchase of God, born of His Spirit, washed in His blood. This is my story, this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long; this is my story this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long. Perfect submission, perfect delight, visions of rapture now burst on my sight; angels descending, bring from above echoes of mercy, whispers of love. This is my story, this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long; this is my story this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long. Perfect submission, all is at rest, I in my Savior am happy and blest; watching and waiting, looking above, filled with His goodness, lost in His love. This is my story, this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long; this is my story this is my song, praising my Savior all the day long.|HGC-62
english|When I Survey The Wondrous Cross||When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Lord of glory died, my richest gain I count but loss, and pour contempt on all my pride. Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, save in the cross of Christ, my God; all the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to His blood. See, from His head, His hands, His feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down; did e'er such love and sorrow meet, or thorns compose so rich a crown? Were the whole realm of nature mine, that were an off'ring far too small; love so amazing, so divine, demands my heart, my life, my all!|HGC-63
english|O The Deep, Deep Love Of Jesus,||O the deep, deep love of Jesus, vast, unmeasured, boundless, free; rolling as a mighty ocean in its fullness over me. Underneath me, all around me, is the current of Thy love; leading onward, leading homeward, to my glorious rest above. O the deep, deep love of Jesus; spread His praise from shore to shore; how He loveth, ever loveth, changeth never, nevermore; how He watches o'er His loved ones, died to call them all His own; how for them He intercedeth, watcheth o'er them from the throne. O the deep, deep love of Jesus, love of ev'ry love the best; tis an ocean vast of blessing, tis a haven sweet of rest, O the deep, deep love of Jesus, tis a heav'n of heav'ns to me; and it lifts me up to glory, for it lifts me up to Thee.|HGC-64
english|Fairest Lord Jesus||Fairest Lord Jesus. Ruler of all nature. O Thou of God and man the Son. Thee will I cherish, Thee will I honor, Thou my soul's glory, joy, and crown! Fair are the meadows, fairer still the woodlands, robed in the blooming garb of spring: Jesus is fairer, Jesus is purer, Who makes the woeful heart to sing. Fair is the sunshine, fairer still the moonlight, and all the twinkling starry host: Jesus shines brighter, Jesus shines purer than all the angels heav'n can boast. Beautiful Savior. Lord of the nations. Son of God and Son of Man. Glory and honor, praise, adoration now and forevermore be Thine!|HGC-65
english|Psalms 79:13||So we Thy people and the sheep of Thy pasture will give thanks to Thee forever; So we Thy people and the sheep of Thy pasture will give thanks to Thee forever; To all generations we will tell of Thy praise. To all generations we will tell of Thy praise. So we Thy people and the sheep of Thy pasture will give thanks to Thee forever; So we Thy people and the sheep of Thy pasture will give thanks to Thee forever;|HGC-66
english|Psalms 63:1||O God, Thou art my God; early will I seek Thee. O God, Thou art my God; early will I seek Thee. My soul thirsteth for Thee, my flesh longeth for Thee, in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is. O God, Thou art my God; early will I seek Thee. O God, Thou art my God; early will I seek Thee.|HGC-67
english|Psalms 86:12-13||I will praise Thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, with all my heart. And I will glorify Thy name for evermore, with all my heart, for great is Thy mercy toward me; and Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. I will praise Thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, with all my heart. And I will glorify Thy name for evermore, with all my heart.|HGC-68
english|Onward, Christian Soldiers||Onward, Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before; Christ the royal Master leads against the foe; forward into battle, see His banners go. Onward, Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before. Like a mighty army moves the Church of God; brothers, we are treading where the saints have trod; we are not divided, all one body we, one in hope and doctrine, one in charity. Onward, Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before. Crowns and thorns may perish, kingdoms rise and wane, but the Church of Jesus constant will remain; gates of hell can never gainst that church prevail; we have Christ's own promise, and that cannot fail. Onward, Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before. Onward, then, ye people, join our happy throng, blend with ours your voices in the triumph song; glory, laud, and honor unto Christ the King; this thru countless ages men and angels sing. Onward, Christian soldiers, marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before.|HGC-69
english|REVELATION 15:3-4||And they sang the song of Moses the servant of God and the song of the Lamb, saying, "Great, great and marvelous are Thy works, Lord God Almighty; Just and true are Thy ways, O Lord, Thou King of the saints. Who will not fear Thee, O Lord, and glorify Thy name. For Thou alone only art holy."|HGC-70
english|O, MY SAVIOR, CRUCIFIED||O my Savior crucified, near Thy cross would I abide, gazing with adoring eye on Thy dying agony. Jesus bruis'd and put to shame, tells me all Jehovah's name; God is love, I surely know by the Savior's depths of woe. In His spotless soul's distress I have learnt my guiltiness; O how vile my low estate, since my ransom was so great! Rent the veil that closed the way to my home of heav'nly day, in the flesh of Christ the Lord, ever be His name adored! Yet in sight of Calvary, contrite should my spirit be, rest and holiness there find fashioned like my Savior's mind.|HGC-71
english|PSALMS 104:33-35||I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. My meditation of Him shall be sweet; I will be glad, I will be glad in the Lord. Bless thou the Lord, O my soul. Praise ye the Lord! Bless thou the Lord, O my soul. Praise ye the Lord! Bless thou the Lord, O my soul. Praise ye the Lord! Bless thou the Lord, O my soul. Praise ye the Lord!|HGC-72
english|WHAT WONDROUS LOVE IS THIS||What wondrous love is this, O my soul, O my soul! What wondrous love is this, O my soul! What wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of bliss to bear the dreadful curse for my soul, for my soul, to bear the dreadful curse for my soul. When I was sinking down, sinking down, sinking down, when I was sinking down, sinking down, when I was sinking down beneath God's righteous frown, Christ laid aside His crown for my soul, for my soul, Christ laid aside His crown for my soul. To God and to the Lamb I will sing, I will sing, to God and to the Lamb I will sing, to God and to the Lamb who is the great "I AM," while millions join the theme, I will sing, I will sing, while millions join the theme, I will sing. And when from death I'm free, I'll sing on, I'll sing on, and when from death I'm free, I'll sing on, and when from death I'm free, I'll sing and joyful be, and through eternity I'll sing on, I'll sing on, and through eternity I'll sing on.|HGC-73
english|1 TIMOTHY 2:5||For there is one (one) God and one mediator between God and man, for there is one (one) God and one mediator, the man Christ Jesus, Who gave Himself a ransom for us all, Who gave Himself a ransom for us all, Who gave Himself a ransom for us all, Oh, what a wonderful Savior! For there is one (one) God and one mediator between God and man, for there is one (one) God and one mediator, the man Christ Jesus,|HGC-74
english|LORD JESUS, I LOVE THEE||Lord Jesus, I love Thee, I know Thou art mine, my Rock and my Fortress, my Surety divine, my gracious Redeemer, my song shall be now: tis Thou who art worthy, Lord Jesus, 'tis Thou. I love Thee because Thou hast first loved me, and purchased my pardon on Calvary's tree; I love Thee for wearing the thorns on Thy brow: tis Thou who art worthy, Lord Jesus, 'tis Thou. I'd love Thee in life, I would love Thee in death, and praise Thee as long as Thou lendest me breath, and sing, should the death-dew lie cold on my brow: tis Thou who art worthy, Lord Jesus, 'tis Thou. And when the bright morn of Thy glory shall come, and children ascend to the Father's glad home, I'll shout, with Thy likeness impressed on my brow, tis Thou who art worthy, Lord Jesus, 'tis Thou.|HGC-75
english|EXODUS 15:1-2||I will sing unto the Lord, for He has triumphed gloriously; the horse and rider thrown into the sea. I will sing unto the Lord, for He has triumphed gloriously; the horse and rider thrown into the sea. The Lord, my God, my strength, my song has now become my victory. The Lord, my God, my strength, my song has now become my victory. The Lord is God and I will praise Him; my father's God, and I will exalt Him. The Lord is God and I will praise Him; my father's God, and I will exalt Him.|HGC-76
english|CHANNELS ONLY||How I praise Thee, precious Savior, that Thy love laid hold of me; Thou hast saved and cleansed and filled me that I might Thy channel be. Channels only, blessed Master, but with all Thy wondrous pow'r flowing thru us, Thou canst use us ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Emptied that Thou shouldest fill me, a clean vessel in Thy hand; with no pow'r but as Thou givest graciously with each command. Channels only, blessed Master, but with all Thy wondrous pow'r flowing thru us, Thou canst use us ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Witnessing Thy pow'r to save me, setting free from self and sin; Thou who boughtest to possess me, in Thy fullness, Lord, come in. Channels only, blessed Master, but with all Thy wondrous pow'r flowing thru us, Thou canst use us ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Jesus, fill now with Thy Spirit hearts that full surrender know; that the streams of living water from our inner man may flow. Channels only, blessed Master, but with all Thy wondrous pow'r flowing thru us, Thou canst use us ev'ry day and ev'ry hour.|HGC-77
english|IT IS NO LONGER I THAT LIVETH||It is no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. It is no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. In me, in me, Jesus is alive in me. It is no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. It is no longer I that loveth, but Christ that loveth through me. It is no longer I that loveth, but Christ that loveth, through me. Through me, through me, Jesus shows His love through me. It is no longer I that loveth, but Christ that loveth through me.|HGC-78
english|GREAT IS THY FAITHFULNESS||Great is Thy faithfulness, O God my Father, there is no shadow of turning with Thee; Thou changest not, Thy compassions they fail not, As Thou hast been Thou forever wilt be. Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; all I have needed Thy hand hath provided great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me! Summer and winter, and springtime and harvest, sun, moon and stars in their courses above, join with all nature in manifold witness to Thy great faithfulness, mercy and love. Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; all I have needed Thy hand hath provided great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me! Pardon for sin and a peace that endureth, Thy own dear presence to cheer and to guide; strength for today and bright hope for tomorrow, blessings all mine, with ten thousand beside! Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; all I have needed Thy hand hath provided great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me!|HGC-79
english|PSALMS 123:1 & 2||To Thee do I lift up my eyes, O Thou, who art enthroned in the heavens. To Thee do I lift up my eyes, O Thou, who art enthroned in the heavens. Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maid look to the hand of her mistress; So our eyes look to the Lord our God. So our eyes look to the Lord our God. Until He shall be gracious to us.|HGC-80
english|WHO IS ON THE LORD'S SIDE?||Who is on the Lord's side. Who will serve the King? Who will be His helpers, other lives to bring? Who will leave the world's side. Who will face the foe? Who is on the Lord's side. Who for Him will go? By Thy call of mercy, by Thy grace divine, we are on the Lord's side; Savior, we are Thine. Not for weight of glory, not for crown and palm, enter we the army, raise the warrior psalm; but for love that claimeth lives for whom He died; He whom Jesus nameth must be on His side. By Thy love constraining, by Thy grace divine, we are on the Lord's side; Savior, we are Thine! Jesus, Thou hast bought us, not with gold or gem, but with Thine own life-blood, for Thy diadem. With Thy blessing filling each who comes to Thee, Thou hast made us willing, Thou hast made us free. By Thy grand redemption, by Thy grace divine, we are on the Lord' side; Savior, we are Thine! Fierce may be the conflict, strong may be the foe, But the King's own army none can overthrow. Round His standard ranging victory is secure. for His truth unchanging makes the triumph sure. Joyfully enlisting by Thy grace divine, we are on the Lord's side; Savior, we are Thine!|HGC-81
english|VICTORY IN JESUS||I heard an old, old story, how a Savior came from glory; how He gave His life on Calvary to save a wretch like me: I heard about His groaning, of His precious blood's atoning. Then I repented of my sins and won the victory. O victory in Jesus, my Savior, forever! He sought me and bought me with His redeeming blood; He loved me ere I knew Him, and all my love is due Him He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood! I heard about His healing, of His cleansing pow'r revealing, how He made the lame to walk again and caused the blind to see; and then I cried, "Dear Jesus, come and heal my broken spirit," and somehow Jesus came and brought to me the victory. O victory in Jesus, my Savior, forever! He sought me and bought me with His redeeming blood; He loved me ere I knew Him, and all my love is due Him He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood! I heard about a mansion He has built for me in glory; and I heard about the streets of gold beyond the crystal sea; about the angels singing and the old redemption story, and some sweet day I'll sing up there the song of victory. O victory in Jesus, my Savior, forever! He sought me and bought me with His redeeming blood; He loved me ere I knew Him, and all my love is due Him He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood!|HGC-82
english|MICAH 4:5||Though all the peoples walk each in the name of his god, as for us, we will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever. (And ever)|HGC-83
english|AT CALVARY||Years I spent in vanity and pride, caring not my Lord was crucified, knowing not it was for me He died on Calvary. Mercy there was great, and grace was free; pardon there was multiplied to me; there my burdened soul found liberty at Calvary. By God's Word at last my sin I learned; then I trembled at the law I'd spurned, till my guilty soul imploring turned to Calvary. Mercy there was great, and grace was free; pardon there was multiplied to me; there my burdened soul found liberty at Calvary. Now I've given to Jesus everything, now I gladly own Him as my King; now my raptured soul can only sing of Calvary. Mercy there was great, and grace was free; pardon there was multiplied to me; there my burdened soul found liberty at Calvary. Oh, the love that drew salvation's plan. Oh, the grace that brought it down to man. Oh, the mighty gulf that God did span at Calvary! Mercy there was great, and grace was free; pardon there was multiplied to me; there my burdened soul found liberty at Calvary.|HGC-84
english|Communion Song||This is My body broken for you bringing you wholeness, making you free. Take it and eat it and when you do, do it in love for Me. This is My blood poured out for you bringing forgiveness, making you free. Take it and drink it and when you do, do it in love for Me.|HGC-85
english|OH, FOR A HEART TO PRAISE MY GOD||Oh, for a heart to praise my God a heart from sin set free; a heart that's trusting in the blood so freely shed for me. A heart resigned, submissive, meek, my dear Redeemer's throne; where only Christ is heard to speak, where Jesus reigns alone. A humble, lowly, contrite heart, believing, true, and clean which neither death nor life can part from Him that dwells within. A heart in ev'ry thought renewed, and filled with love divine; Perfect and right, and pure and good a copy, Lord, of Thine.|HGC-86
english|COLOSSIANS 3:1-4||If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall we also appear with Him in glory. So . . . If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.|HGC-87
english|WE REST ON THEE||We rest on Thee" our Shield and our Defender! We go not forth alone against the foe; strong in Thy strength, safe in Thy keeping tender, we rest on Thee, and in Thy name we go. strong in Thy strength, safe in Thy keeping tender, we rest on Thee, and in Thy name we go. Yea, "in Thy name," O Captain of salvation! in Thy dear name, all other names above; Jesus our Righteousness, our sure Foundation, our Prince of glory and our King of love. Jesus our Righteousness, our sure Foundation, our Prince of glory and our King of love. We go" in faith, our own great weakness feeling, and needing more each day Thy grace to know: yet from our hearts a song of triumph pealing; we rest on Thee, and in Thy name we go." yet from our hearts a song of triumph pealing; we rest on Thee, and in Thy name we go." We rest on Thee" our Shield and our Defender! Thine is the battle, Thine shall be the praise. When passing through the gates of pearly splendor, victors - we rest with Thee, through endless days. When passing through the gates of pearly splendor, victors - we rest with Thee, through endless days.|HGC-88
english|Acts 2:42,47||And they were (And they were) Continually (Continually) Devoting themselves To the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, To the breaking of bread and to prayer. And the Lord was (day by day) Adding to their number (day by day) And the Lord was (day by day) Adding to their number (day by day) Those who were being saved.|HGC-89
english|TEACH ME THY WAY, O LORD||Teach me Thy way, O Lord; teach me Thy way! Thy gracious aid afford; teach me Thy way! Help me to walk aright, more by faith less by sight, lead me with heav'nly light; teach me Thy way! When I am sad at heart, teach me Thy way! When earthly joys depart, teach me Thy way! In hours of loneliness, in times of dire distress, in failure or success, teach me Thy way! When doubts and fears arise; teach me Thy way! When storms o'er spread the skies; teach me Thy way! Shine through the cloud and rain, through sorrow, toil and pain, make Thou my pathway plain; teach me Thy way! Long as my life shall last; teach me Thy way! Where'er my lot be cast; teach me Thy way! Until the race is run, until the journey's done, until the crown is won; teach me Thy way!|HGC-90
english|ISAIAH 61:10||I will rejoice greatly in the Lord, my soul will exult in my God, in my God. Oh, I will rejoice greatly in the Lord, my soul will exult in my God, in my God; for He has clothed me with the garments of salvation, He has wrapped me with a robe of righteousness. I will rejoice. I will rejoice. I will rejoice! I will rejoice. I will rejoice!|HGC-91
english|PRAISE THE SAVIOR||Praise the Savior, ye who know Him. Who can tell how much we owe Him? Gladly let us render to Him all we are and have. Jesus is the name that charms us; He for conflict fits and arms us; nothing moves and nothing harms us while we trust in Him. Trust in Him, ye saints, forever; He is faithful, changing never; neither force nor guile can sever those He loves from Him. Keep us Lord, O keep us cleaving to Thyself and still believing, till the hour of our receiving promised joys with Thee. Then we shall be where we would be, then we shall be what we should be; things that are not now, nor could be, soon shall be our own.|HGC-92
english|HOSEA 6:3||So let us know, let us press on to know the Lord. His going forth is as certain as the dawn; and He will come to us like the rain, Like the spring rain watering the earth. So let us press on to know the Lord. Like the spring rain watering the earth. So let us press on to know the Lord.|HGC-93
english|NOTHING BUT THE BLOOD||What can wash away my sin. Nothing but the blood of Jesus; what can make me whole again. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh! Precious is the flow that makes me white as snow; no other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus. For my pardon this I see nothing but the blood of Jesus; for my cleansing, this my plea nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh! Precious is the flow that makes me white as snow; no other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus. Nothing can for sin atone nothing but the blood of Jesus; naught of good that I have done nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh! Precious is the flow that makes me white as snow; no other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is all my hope and peace nothing but the blood of Jesus; this is all my righteousness nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh! Precious is the flow that makes me white as snow; no other fount I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus.|HGC-94
english|PSALMS 28:6,7||The Lord is my strength and shield; and in Him my heart trusts. The Lord is my strength and shield; and in Him my heart trusts. So I am helped and my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to Him. So I am helped and my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to Him. Blessed be the Lord, blessed be the Lord. Blessed be the Lord, blessed be the Lord.|HGC-95
english|AT THE CROSS||Alas, and did my Savior bleed? And did my Sovereign die? Would He devote that sacred head for such a worm as I? At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, and the burden of my heart rolled away, it was there by faith I received my sight, and now I am happy all the day! Was it for crimes that I have done, He groaned upon the tree? amazing pity! grace unknown! And love beyond degree! At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, and the burden of my heart rolled away, it was there by faith I received my sight, and now I am happy all the day! Well might the sun in darkness hide, and shut his glories in, when Christ the mighty Maker, died for man the creature's, sin. At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, and the burden of my heart rolled away, it was there by faith I received my sight, and now I am happy all the day! But drops of grief can ne'er repay the debt of love I owe: here, Lord, I give myself away, tis all that I can do! At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, and the burden of my heart rolled away, it was there by faith I received my sight, and now I am happy all the day!|HGC-96
english|I'M SO HAPPY||I'm so happy, here's the reason why Jesus took my burdens all away. Now I'm singing as the days go by; Jesus took my burdens all away. Once my heart was heavy with a load of sin. Jesus took my load and gave me wonderful peace within (my heart and) now I'm singing as the days go by, Jesus took my burdens all away!|HGC-97
english|ARE YOU WASHED IN THE BLOOD?||Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you fully trusting in His grace this hour? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you washed in the blood, in the soul-cleansing blood of the Lamb? Are your garments spotless. Are they white as snow? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you walking daily by the Savior's side? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Do you rest each moment in the Crucified? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you washed in the blood, in the soul-cleansing blood of the Lamb? Are your garments spotless. Are they white as snow? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? When the Bridegroom cometh will your robes be white? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Will your soul be ready for the mansions bright, And be washed in the blood of the Lamb? Are you washed in the blood, in the soul-cleansing blood of the Lamb? Are your garments spotless. Are they white as snow? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb? Lay aside the garments that are stained with sin, and be washed in the blood of the Lamb; there's a fountain flowing for the soul unclean, O be washed in the blood of the Lamb. Are you washed in the blood, in the soul-cleansing blood of the Lamb? Are your garments spotless. Are they white as snow? Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?|HGC-98
english|REVELATION 19: 6b-7a||Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and be glad and give the glory unto Him. Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns.|HGC-99
english|FARTHER ALONG||Tempted and tried we're oft made to wonder why it should be thus all the day long, while there are others living about us, never molested though in the wrong. Farther along we'll know all about it, farther along we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother, live in the sunshine, we'll understand it all by and by. When death has come and taken our loved ones, it leaves our home so lonely and drear; then do we wonder why others prosper, living so wicked year after year. Farther along we'll know all about it, farther along we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother, live in the sunshine, we'll understand it all by and by. Faithful till death said our loving Master, a few more days to labor and wait; toils of the road will then seem as nothing, as we sweep through the beautiful gate. Farther along we'll know all about it, farther along we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother, live in the sunshine, we'll understand it all by and by. When we see Jesus coming in glory, when He comes from His home in the sky; then we shall meet Him in that bright mansion, we'll understand it all by and by. Farther along we'll know all about it, farther along we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother, live in the sunshine, we'll understand it all by and by.|HGC-100
english|ZEPHANIAH 3:17||The Lord your God is in your midst, a warrior who saves. He will exult over you with joy, He will renew you in His love, He will rejoice over you with shouts of j-o-y with shouts of j-o-y, with shouts of j-o-y, with shouts of j-o-y, with shouts of joy.|HGC-101
english|PSALMS 42:1||As the deer panteth for the water, so my soul longeth after Thee You alone are my heart's desire, and I long to worship Thee. You alone are my strength, my shield; to You alone may my spirit yield; You alone are my heart's desire, and I long to worship Thee. You're my Friend and You are my brother, even though You are my King, I love You more than any other, so much more than anything. You alone are my strength, my shield; to You alone may my spirit yield; You alone are my heart's desire, and I long to worship Thee. I love You more than gold or silver, only You can satisfy, You alone are the real joy giver and the apple of my eye. You alone are my strength, my shield; to You alone may my spirit yield; You alone are my heart's desire, and I long to worship Thee.|HGC-102
english|DEUT 5:29; II CHRON 16:9||Oh that they had such a heart in them, that they would fear Me, and keep all My commandments always, that it may be well with them and their sons forever! For the eyes of the Lord move to and fro throughout the earth so that He may strongly support the one whose heart is completely His. Oh that they had such a heart in them, that they would fear Me, and keep all My commandments always, that it may be well with them and their sons forever!|HGC-103
english|ALLELU!||God said He would send His Son, allelu, allelu! And salvation would be won, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu! Christ was born in Bethlehem, allelu, allelu! So that man would live again, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu! Thirty years He walked the land, allelu, allelu! To all in need He lent His hand, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu! On the hard wood of the cross, allelu, allelu! He suffered and He died for us, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu! On the third day He did rise, allelu, allelu! Now He lives no more to die, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu! Now we too can live anew, allelu, allelu! Live in Him need all we do, alleluia! Allelu. Allelu. Everybody sing allelu! For the Lord has risen, it is true, everybody sing allelu!|HGC-104
english|I'M REDEEMED||Well, I'm redeemed by love divine, well, glory, glory, glory, glory, Christ is mine. Unto Him I have resigned I have been, I've been redeemed. Well, I'm redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, well, I'm redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, well, I'm redeemed by the blood of the Lamb, now how thankful and glad I am, all my sins are under the blood, I've been redeemed.|HGC-105
english|COME, THOU ALMIGHTY KING||Come, Thou Almighty King, help us Thy name to sing, help us to praise: Father! all glorious, o'er all victorious, come and reign over us, Ancient of Days. Come, Thou Incarnate Word, gird on Thy mighty sword, Our prayer attend! come and Thy people bless, and give Thy Word success: on Thine own faithfulness we now depend. Come, Holy Comforter, Thy sacred witness bear, in this glad hour! Thou, who almighty art, now rule in ev'ry heart, to us Thy Word impart Spirit of pow'r. To Thee, great One in Three, the highest praises be, hence evermore; His sov'reign majesty may we in glory see, and to eternity love and adore.|HGC-106
english|MORE LOVE TO THEE||More love to Thee, O Christ, more love to Thee! Hear Thou the prayer I make on bended knee; this is my earnest plea: more love, O Christ, to Thee, more love to Thee, more love to Thee! Once earthly joy I craved, sought peace and rest; now Thee alone I seek, give what is best; this all my prayer shall be: more love, O Christ, to Thee, more love to Thee, more love to Thee! Then shall my latest breath whisper Thy praise; this be the parting cry my heart shall raise; this still its prayer shall be: more love, O Christ, to Thee, more love to Thee, more love to Thee!|HGC-107
english|JESUS LIVES AND SO SHALL I||Jesus lives, and so shall I Death, thy sting is gone forever. He who deigned for me to die, lives, the bands of death to sever. He shall raise me with the just; Jesus is my Hope and Trust. Jesus lives and reigns supreme; and His kingdom still remaining, I shall also be with Him, ever living, ever reigning. God has promised: be it must; Jesus is my Hope and Trust. Jesus lives I know full well, naught from Him my heart can sever, life nor death nor powers of hell, joy nor grief, henceforth forever. None of all His saints is lost; Jesus is my Hope and Trust. Jesus lives, and death is now but my entrance into glory. Courage, then, my soul, for thou hast a crown of life before thee; thou shalt find thy hopes were just; Jesus is the Christian's trust.|HGC-108
english|HABAKKUK 2:14||For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, As the waters cover the sea. As the waters cover the sea. As the waters cover the sea.|HGC-109
english|GOD IS LOVE||God is interested in you and me, wanting us to be the best we can be. We're not perfect, living the way we do, but He knows just what we're going through. God is love, God is light, God is faithful day and night. He is eternal, He never changes, though the seas rise up and swallow mountain ranges. Jesus gave Himself to die on the tree, He loves you and me, oh don't you see. He paid for sin, now He lives forever, won't you come to Him. He will forsake you never. God is love, God is light, God is faithful day and night. He is eternal, He never changes, though the seas rise up and swallow mountain ranges.|HGC-110
english|I AM NOT SKILLED TO UNDERSTAND||I am not skilled to understand what God hath willed, what God hath planned; I only know at His right hand is One who is my Savior! I take Him at His word indeed: Christ died for sinners," this I read; for in my heart I find a need of Him to be my Savior! That He should leave His place on high and come for sinful man to die, you count it strange? so once did I, before I knew my Savior! And oh, that He fulfilled my see the travail of His soul in me, and with His work contented be, as I with my dear Savior! Yes, living, dying, let me bring my strength, my solace from this spring; that He who lives to be my King, once died to be my Savior!|HGC-111
english|AND CAN IT BE||And can it be that I should gain an int'rest in the Savior's blood. Died He for me, who caused His pain. For me, who Him to death pursued. Amazing love! how can it be that Thou, my God, shouldst die for me? Amazing love! how can it be that Thou, my God, shouldst die for me? Tis myst'ry all. Th' Immortal dies; who can explore His strange design. In vain the firstborn seraph tries to sound the depths of love divine. Tis mercy all! Let earth adore, let angel minds inquire no more. Tis mercy all! Let earth adore, let angel minds inquire no more. He left His Father's throne above, so free, so infinite His grace, emptied himself in matchless love, and bled for Adam's helpless race tis mercy all, immense and free; for O my God, it found out me. Tis mercy all, immense and free; for, O my God, it found out me! Long my imprisoned spirit lay fast bound in sin and nature's night; Thine eye diffused a quick'ning ray, I woke, the dungeon flamed with light; my chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed Thee. My chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed Thee. No condemnation now I dread; Jesus, and all in Him, is mine. Alive in Him, my living Head, and clothed in righteousness divine, bold I approach the eternal throne, and claim the crown, through Christ, my own. Bold I approach the eternal throne, and claim the crown, through Christ, my own.|HGC-112
english|CREATURES OF OUR GOD AND KING||All creatures of our God and King, lift up your voice and with us sing, Alleluia! Alleluia. Thou burning sun with golden beam, Thou silver moon with softer gleam! O praise Him, O praise Him, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Thou rushing wind that art so strong, ye clouds that sail in heav'n along, O praise Him. Alleluia. Thou rising morn, in praise rejoice, ye lights of evening, find a voice! O praise Him, O praise Him, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Dear mother earth, who day by day unfoldest blessings on our way, O praise Him. Alleluia. The flow'rs and fruits that in thee grow, let them His glory also show! O praise Him, O praise Him, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! And all ye men of tender heart, forgiving others, take your part, O sing ye. Alleluia. Ye who long pain and sorrow bear, praise God and on Him cast your care! O praise Him, O praise Him, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Let all things their Creator bless, and worship Him in humbleness, O praise Him. Alleluia. Praise, praise the Father, praise the Son, and praise the Spirit, Three in One! O praise Him, O praise Him, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia!|HGC-113
english|PSALMS 86:11-12||Teach me Thy way, O Lord; I will walk in Thy truth; unite my heart to fear, my heart to fear Thy name. I will give thanks to Thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and will glorify Thy name O Lord, Thy name forevermore. Teach me Thy way, O Lord; I will walk in Thy truth; unite my heart to fear, my heart to fear Thy name.|HGC-114
english|THIS IS MY FATHER'S WORLD||This is my Father's world, and to my listening ears all nature sings, and round me rings the music of the spheres. This is my Father's world: I rest me in the thought of rocks and trees, of skies and seas His hand the wonders wrought. This is my Father's world, the birds their carols raise, the morning light, the lily white, declare their Maker's praise. This is my Father's world: He shines in all that's fair; in the rustling grass I hear Him pass, He speaks to me every where. This is my Father's world, O let me ne'er forget that tho' the wrong seems oft so strong, God is the Ruler yet. This is my Father's world: the battle is not done; Jesus who died shall be satisfied, and earth and heaven be one.|HGC-115
english|LORD JESUS CHRIST, WE SEEK THY FACE||Lord Jesus Christ, we seek Thy face; within the vail we bow the knee; Oh, let Thy glory fill the place, and bless us while we wait on Thee. We thank Thee for the precious blood that purged our sins and bro't us nigh; all cleansed and sanctified to God, Thy holy name to magnify. Shut in with Thee far, far above the restless world that wars below; we seek to learn and prove Thy love, Thy wisdom and Thy grace to know. The brow that once with thorns was bound, Thy hands, Thy side, we fain would see; draw near, Lord Jesus, glory crowned, and bless us while we wait on Thee.|HGC-116
english|MAY JESUS CHRIST BE PRAISED||When morning gilds the skies, my heart awaking cries: may Jesus Christ be praised. Alike at work and prayer to Jesus I repair: may Jesus Christ be praised! Does sadness fill my mind. A solace here I find: may Jesus Christ be praised. Or fades my earthly bliss? my comfort still is this: may Jesus Christ be praised! In heav'n's eternal bliss the loveliest strain is this: may Jesus Christ be praised! The pow'rs of darkness fear when this sweet chant they hear: may Jesus Christ be praised! Be this, while life is mine, my canticle divine: may Jesus Christ be praised. Be this th' eternal song through all the ages long: may Jesus Christ be praised!|HGC-117
english|BLEST BE THE TIE THAT BINDS||Blest be the tie that binds our hearts in Christian love; the fellowship of kindred minds is like to that above. Before our Father's throne we pour our ardent prayers; our fears, our hopes, our aims are one, our comforts and our cares. We share our mutual woes, our mutual burdens bear; and often for each other flows the sympathizing tear. When we asunder part, it gives us inward pain; but we shall still be joined in heart, and hope to meet again.|HGC-118
english|WE'RE MARCHING TO ZION||Come, we that love the Lord, and let our joys be known, join in a song with sweet accord, join in a song with sweet accord, and thus surround the throne, and thus surround the throne. We're marching to Zion, beautiful, beautiful Zion; we're marching upward to Zion, the beautiful city of God. Let those refuse to sing who never knew our God; but children of the heav'nly King, but children of the heav'nly King, may speak their joys abroad, may speak their joys abroad. The hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach the heav'nly fields, before we reach the heav'nly fields, or walk the golden streets, or walk the golden streets. Then let our songs abound, and ev'ry tear be dry; we're marching thro' Immanuel's ground, we're marching thro' Immanuel's ground, to fairer worlds on high, to fairer worlds on high.|HGC-119
english|WHEN THE ROLL IS CALLED UP YONDER||When the trumpet of the Lord shall sound, and time shall be no more, and the morning breaks, eternal, bright and fair; when the saved of earth shall gather over on the other shore, and the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there. When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there. On that bright and cloudless morning when the dead in Christ shall rise, and the glory of His resurrection share; when His chosen ones shall gather to their home beyond the skies, and the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there. When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there. Let us labor for the Master from the dawn till setting sun, let us talk of all His wondrous love and care; then when all of life is over, and our work on earth is done, and the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there. When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, When the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there.|HGC-120
english|PSALMS 3:3-4||My glory, and the lifter of my head. My glory, and the lifter of my head. For Thou, O Lord, art a shield to me. My glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, And He answered me from His holy hill. My glory, and the lifter of my head. My glory, and the lifter of my head. For Thou, O Lord, art a shield to me. My glory, and the lifter of my head.|HGC-121
english|STAND UP FOR JESUS||Stand up, stand up for Jesus, ye soldiers of the cross; lift high His royal banner, it must not suffer loss; from vict'ry unto vict'ry His army shall He lead, till ev'ry foe is vanquished and Christ is Lord indeed. Stand up, stand up for Jesus, the trumpet call obey; forth to the mighty conflict, in this His glorious day: Ye that are men now serve Him" against unnumbered foes; let courage rise with danger, and strength to strength oppose. Stand up, stand up for Jesus, stand in His strength alone; the arm of flesh will fail you, ye dare not trust your own: put on the gospel armor, each piece put on with prayer; where duty calls or danger, be never wanting there.|HGC-122
english|HEAVENLY FATHER, WE APPRECIATE YOU||Heavenly Father, we appreciate You. Heavenly Father, we appreciate You. We love You, adore You. We bow down before You. Heavenly Father, we appreciate You. Son of God, what a wonder You are. Son of God, what a wonder You are. You cleansed my soul from sin - set the Holy Ghost within. Son of God, what a wonder You are! Holy Ghost, what a comfort You are. Holy Ghost, what a comfort You are. You lead me, You guide me, You live right inside me. Holy Ghost, what a comfort You are! Heavenly Father, we appreciate You. Heavenly Father, we appreciate You. We love You, adore You. We bow down before You. Heavenly Father, we appreciate You.|HGC-123
english|PRAISE TO THE LORD, THE ALMIGHTY||Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of creation! O my soul, praise Him, for He is thy health and salvation! Come ye who hear, now to His throne draw near; join me in glad adoration! Praise ye the Lord, who o'er all things so wondrously reigneth, shelters thee under His wings, yea, so gently sustaineth. Hast thou not seen how Thy desires e'er have been granted in what He ordaineth? Praise ye the Lord, Who with marvelous wisdom hath made thee! Decked thee with health, and with loving hand guided and stayed thee; how oft in grief hath not He brought thee relief, spreading His wings for to shade thee! Praise ye the Lord. O let all that is in meadore Him! All that hath life and breath, come now with praises before Him. Let the Amen sound from His people again: gladly for aye we adore Him.|HGC-124
english|ROCK OF AGES||Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in Thee; Let the water and the blood, from Thy riven side which flowed, be of sin the double cure, cleanse me from its guilt and power. Not the labors of my hands can fulfill Thy law's demands; could my zeal no respite know, could my tears forever flow, all for sin could not atone; Thou must save, and Thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to Thy cross I cling; Naked, come to Thee for dress, helpless, look to Thee for grace; foul, I to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die! While I draw this fleeting breath, when mine eyes shall close in death, when I soar to worlds unknown, see Thee on Thy judgment throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in Thee.|HGC-125
english|I THESSALONIANS 4:15-18||For this we say to you by the Word of the Lord, that we who are alive, and remain until the coming of the Lord, shall not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, and the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God; and the dead in Christ shall rise first (Swish). Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and thus we shall always be with the Lord. Therefore comfort one another. With these words.|HGC-126
english|THE WAY OF THE CROSS||I must needs go home by the way of the cross, there's no other way but this; I shall ne'er get sight of the gates of light, if the way of the cross I miss. The way of the cross leads home, the way of the cross leads home; it is sweet to know, as I onward go, the way of the cross leads home. I must needs go on in the blood sprinkled way, the path that the Savior trod, if I ever climb to the heights sublime, where the soul is at home with God. The way of the cross leads home, the way of the cross leads home; it is sweet to know, as I onward go, the way of the cross leads home. Then I bid farewell to the way of the world, to walk in it never more; for my Lord says, "Come," and I seek my home, where He waits at the open door. The way of the cross leads home, the way of the cross leads home; it is sweet to know, as I onward go, the way of the cross leads home.|HGC-127
english|PSALM 51:10, 2, 12||Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquities, Wash me and cleanse me from my sin. Restore unto me the joy of my salvation, And renew a right spirit within me.|HGC-128
english|WHEN WE ALL GET TO HEAVEN||Sing the wondrous love of Jesus, sing His mercy and His grace; in the mansions bright and blessed, He'll prepare for us a place. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we'll sing and shout the victory. While we walk the pilgrim pathway, clouds will overspread the sky; but when traveling days are over, not a shadow, not a sigh. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we'll sing and shout the victory. Let us then be true and faithful, trusting, serving every day; just one glimpse of Him in glory will the toils of life repay. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we'll sing and shout the victory. Onward to the prize before us. Soon His beauty we'll behold; soon the pearly gates will open, we shall tread the streets of gold. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we'll sing and shout the victory.|HGC-129
english|WHEN THIS PASSING WORLD IS DONE||When this passing world is done, when has sunk yon glaring sun, when I stand with Christ on high, looking o'er life's history: then, Lord, shall I fully know - not till then - how much I owe. When I stand before the throne, dressed in beauty not my own; when I see Thee as Thou art, love Thee with unsinning heart then, Lord, shall I fully know - not till then - how much I owe. When the praise of heav'n I hear, loud as thunder to the ear, loud as many waters' noise, sweet as harp's melodious voice: then, Lord, shall I fully know - not till then - how much I owe. Chosen not for good in me; wakened up from wrath to flee; hidden in the Saviour's side; by the Spirit sanctified: teach me, Lord, on earth to show, by my love, how much I owe.|HGC-130
english|JESUS, LOVER OF MY SOUL||Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to Thy bosom fly, while the nearer waters roll, while the tempest still is high. Hide me, O my Savior, hide 'till the storm of life is past; safe into the haven guide, O receive my soul at last! Other refuge have I none, hangs my helpless soul on Thee; leave: ah, leave me not alone, still support and comfort me! All my trust on Thee is stayed - all my help from Thee I bring; cover my defenseless head with the shadow of Thy wing. Thou, O Christ, art all I want, more than all in Thee I find; raise the fallen, cheer the faint, heal the sick and lead the blind. Just and holy is Thy name, I am all unrighteousness; false and full of sin I am, Thou art full of truth and grace. Plenteous grace with Thee is found, grace to cover all my sin; let the healing streams abound. Make and keep me pure within. Thou of life the Fountain art - freely let me take of Thee; spring Thou up within my heart, rise to all eternity.|HGC-131
english|LIFT JESUS HIGHER||Lift Jesus higher, lift Jesus higher, lift Him up for the world to see. He said, "If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto Me." So lift Him higher, lift Jesus higher, lift Him up for the world to see. He said, "If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto Me."|HGC-132
english|MY HOPE IS BUILT ON NOTHING LESS||My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness; I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ the solid rock I stand; all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand. When darkness veils His lovely face, I rest on His unchanging grace; in every high and stormy gale, my anchor holds within the veil. On Christ the solid rock I stand; all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand. His oath, His covenant, His blood, support me in the whelming flood; when all around my soul gives way, He then is all my hope and stay. On Christ the solid rock I stand; all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand. When He shall come with trumpet sound, O may I then in Him be found; dressed in His righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. On Christ the solid rock I stand; all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand.|HGC-133
english|I Timothy 3:16||He who was revealed in the flesh, Was vindicated in the Spirit, Beheld by angels, Proclaimed among the nations, Believed on in the world, Was taken up in glory- taken up in glory- taken up in glory- taken up- was taken up.|HGC-134
english|THE WORK SONG||We must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; we must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; night is coming, when no man can work. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into His harvest. Truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; that the Father may be glorified in the Son the Son the Son. We must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; we must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; night is coming, when no man can work. Therefore my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain in the Lord. Truly, I say to you, he who believes in Me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; that the Father may be glorified in the Son the Son the Son. We must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; we must work the works of Him who sent us, as long as it is day; night is coming, when no man can work.|HGC-135
english|HE LEADETH ME||He leadeth me, O blessed tho't! O words with heav'nly comfort fraught! Whate'er I do, where'er I be, still 'tis God's hand that leadeth me. He leadeth me, He leadeth me! By His own hand He leadeth me! His faithful foll'wer I would be, for by His hand He leadeth me. Sometimes 'mid scenes of deepest gloom, sometimes where Eden's bowers bloom, by waters still, o'er troubled sea, - still 'tis His hand that leadeth me! He leadeth me, He leadeth me! By His own hand He leadeth me! His faithful foll'wer I would be, for by His hand He leadeth me. Lord, I would clasp Thy hand in mine, nor ever murmur nor repine, content, whate'er my lot may be, since 'tis my God that leadeth me! He leadeth me, He leadeth me! By His own hand He leadeth me! His faithful foll'wer I would be, for by His hand He leadeth me. And when my task on earth is done, when, by Thy grace, the vict'ry's won, e'en death's cold wave I will not flee, since God thro' Jordan leadeth me. He leadeth me, He leadeth me! By His own hand He leadeth me! His faithful foll'wer I would be, for by His hand He leadeth me.|HGC-136
english|PSALMS 19||Don't you wonder why the stars are in the sky? They're telling you and I of the glory of God. And every towering tree is there for folks to see. So there no doubt can be of the the glory of God. So let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, do the same thing for Thee and a witness be to the glory of God, to the glory of God. Comes the morning sun to make the darkness run, and say that day's begun to the glory of God. But when the shadows fall and the night winds call they're telling one and all of the glory of God. So let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, do the same thing for Thee and a witness be to the glory of God, to the glory of God.|HGC-137
english|WORTHY, WORTHY IS THE LAMB||Worthy, worthy is the Lamb, worthy, worthy is the Lamb, worthy, worthy is the Lamb, that was slain! Praise Him, hallelujah. Bless Him, hallelujah. Praise Him, hallelujah. Praise the Lamb! Thou redeemst our souls to God, Thou redeemst our souls to God, Thou redeemst our souls to God, by Thy blood. Praise Him, hallelujah. Bless Him, hallelujah. Praise Him, hallelujah. Praise the Lamb! Thou hast made us kings and priests, Thou hast made us kings and priests, Thou hast made us kings and priests, to our God. Praise Him, hallelujah. Bless Him, hallelujah. Praise Him, hallelujah. Praise the Lamb! We shall ever reign with Thee, We shall ever reign with Thee, We shall ever reign with Thee, Lamb of God. Praise Him, hallelujah. Bless Him, hallelujah. Praise Him, hallelujah. Praise the Lamb!|HGC-138
english|O Worship the King||O worship the King, all glorious above, O gratefully sing His power and His love; Our Shield and Defender, the Ancient of Days, Pavilioned in splendor, and girded with praise. O tell of His might, O sing of His grace, Whose robe is the light, whose canopy space. His chariots of wrath the deep thunder clouds form, And dark is His path on the wings of the storm. The earth, with its store of wonders untold, Almighty, Thy pow'r hath founded of old; Hath stablished it fast by a changeless decree, And round it hath cast a mantle, the sea. Thy bountiful care what tongue can recite? It breathes in the air, it shines in the light, It streams from the hills, it descends to the plain, And sweetly distills in the dew and the rain. Frail children of dust, and feeble as frail, In Thee do we trust, nor find Thee to fail; Thy mercies how tender! How firm to the end. Our Maker, Defender, Redeemer and Friend.|HGC-139
english|SO SEND I YOU||So send I you to labor unrewarded, To serve unpaid, unloved, unsought, unknown, To bear rebuke, to suffer scorn and scoffing, So send I you to toil for Me alone. So send I you to bind the bruised and broken, O'er wand'ring souls to work, to weep, to wake, To bear the burdens of a world aweary, so send I you to suffer for My sake. So send I you to loneliness and longing with heart ahung'ring for the loved and known, forsaking home and kindred, friend and dear one, so send I you to know My love alone. So send I you to leave your lif'e ambition, To die to dear desire, selfwill resign, To labor long and love where men revile you, So send I you to lose your life in Mine. So send I you to hearts made hard by hatred, to eyes made blind because they will not see, to spend, tho' it be blood to spend and spare not, So send I you to taste of Calvary. As the Father hath sent me, so send I you."|HGC-140
english|Alpha and Omega||And I heard a great voice Out of heaven say, Behold the tabernacle of God Is with men And He shall be with them And they shall be His people And Almighty God shall be with them. And He shall wipe away the tears From their eyes And there shall be no more death Neither sorrow nor crying And no more pain For the former things Have all passed away. And He that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new" And He said unto me, "Write these words For they are faithful and true." And it is done. It is done. It is done. It is done. He is the Alpha and Omega, The Beginning and the End, Son of God, King of kings, Lord of lords, He is everything, Messiah, Jehovah, Prince of Peace is He, Son of Man, Seed of Abraham, Second person in the Trinity.|HGC-141
english|SWEET HOUR OF PRAYER||Sweet hour of pray'r! sweet hour of pray'r, that calls me from a world of care, and bids me at my Father's throne, make all my wants and wishes known. In seasons of distress and grief my soul has often found relief; and oft escaped the tempter's snare, by thy return, sweet hour of pray'r. Sweet hour of pray'r! sweet hour of pray'r, the joy I feel, the bliss I share, of those whose anxious spirits burn with strong desires for Thy return. With such I hasten to the place where God, my Saviour, shows His face, and gladly take my station there, and wait for thee, sweet hour of pray'r. Sweet hour of pray'r! sweet hour of pray'r, thy wings shall my petition bear to Him whose truth and faithfulness engage the waiting soul to bless; and since He bids me seek His face, believe His word, and trust His grace, I'll cast on Him my ev'ry care, and wait for thee, sweet hour of pray'r.|HGC-142
english|JOHN 6:35||I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me shall not hunger. He who believes in Me shall not thirst. No one comes to Me, unless the Father draws him. And I will raise him up, and I will raise him up, and I will raise him up on the last day. The bread that I shall give is My flesh for the life of the world. He who eats this bread, he shall live forever. He shall live forever. And I will raise him up, and I will raise him up, and I will raise him up on the last day. I am the resurrection. I am the life. He who believes in Me, even if he dies, he shall live forever. And I will raise him up, and I will raise him up, and I will raise him up on the last day. Yes, Lord, I believe that You are the Christ, the Son of God, who has come into the world. And You will raise me up, and You will raise me up, and You will raise me up on the last day.|HGC-143
english|THE OLD RUGGED CROSS||On a hill far away stood an old rugged cross, the emblem of suffering and shame; and I love that old cross where the dearest and best for a world of lost sinners was slain. So I'll cherish the old rugged cross, till my trophies at last I lay down; I will cling to the old rugged cross, and exchange it someday for a crown. O that old rugged cross, so despised by the world has a wondrous attraction for me; for the dear Lamb of God left His glory above to bear it to dark Calvary. So I'll cherish the old rugged cross, till my trophies at last I lay down; I will cling to the old rugged cross, and exchange it someday for a crown. In the old rugged cross, stained with blood so divine, a wondrous beauty I see; for 'twas on that old cross Jesus suffered and died to pardon and sanctify me. So I'll cherish the old rugged cross, till my trophies at last I lay down; I will cling to the old rugged cross, and exchange it someday for a crown. To the old rugged cross I will ever be true, its shame and reproach gladly bear; then He'll call me someday to my home far away, where His glory forever I'll share. So I'll cherish the old rugged cross, till my trophies at last I lay down; I will cling to the old rugged cross, and exchange it someday for a crown.|HGC-144
english|SAVIOUR, LIKE A SHEPHERD LEAD US||Saviour, like a shepherd lead us, much we need Thy tender care; in Thy pleasant pastures feed us, for our use Thy folds prepare: blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, Thou hast bought us, Thine we are; blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, Thou hast bought us, Thine we are. We are Thine; do Thou befriend us, be the Guardian of our way; keep Thy flock, from sin defend us, seek us when we go astray: blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, hear, O hear us when we pray; blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, hear, O hear us when we pray. Thou hast promised to receive us, poor and sinful though we be; Thou hast mercy to relieve us, grace to cleanse, and power to free; blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, early let us turn to Thee; blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, early let us turn to Thee. Early let us seek Thy favor; early let us do Thy will; blessed Lord and only Saviour, with Thy love our bosoms fill: blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, Thou hast loved us, love us still; blessed Jesus, blessed Jesus, Thou hast loved us, love us still.|HGC-145
english|I LOOK NOT BACK||I look not back God knows the fruitless efforts, the wasted hours, the longings, the regrets. I leave them all with Him who blots the record and graciously forgives and then forgets. I look not forward, God sees all the future, the road that short or long will lead me home. And He will face with me its every trial, and bear for me the burdens that may come. I look not round me, then would fears assail me; so wild the tumult of earth's restless seas; so dark the world, so filled with woe and evil; so vain the hope of comfort and of ease. I look not inward that would make me wretched, for I have naught on which to stay my trust; nothing I see save failures and shortcomings, and weak endeavors crumbling into dust. But I look up into the face of Jesus, for there my heart can rest, my fears are stilled. And there is joy and love and light for darkness, and perfect peace and every hope fulfilled.|HGC-146
english|REVELATION 5:9-14||Worthy art Thou to take the book And to break its seals Worthy art Thou to take the book And to break its seals For Thou wast slain and didst Purchase for God with Thy blood Men, Men from every tribe And tongue and people and nation men And Thou hast made them to be A kingdom and priests And Thou hast made them to be A kingdom and priests to our God And they will reign upon the earth Men, men from every tribe And tongue and people and nation men And I looked And I heard the voice of many angels Around the throne And the living creatures and the elders, And the number of them Was myriads of myriads, And thousands of thousands Saying with a loud voice Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb. Worthy, worthy, worthy is the Lamb. That was slain to receive Power and riches and wisdom and might, Honor and glory and blessing Worthy is the Lamb, is the Lamb And every created thing Which is in heaven and on the earth And under the earth, and on the sea And all things in them, I heard saying To Him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb To Him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb Be blessing and honor and glory And dominion forever and ever And the four living creatures Kept saying amen And the elders fell down and worshipped And the elders fell down Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen, Amen.|HGC-147
english|THE WONDER OF IT ALL||There's a wonder of sunset at evening, the wonder as sunrise I see; but the wonder of wonders that thrills my soul is the wonder that God loves me. O, the wonder of it all. The wonder of it all. Just to think that God loves me. O the wonder of it all. The wonder of it all. Just to think that God loves me. There's the wonder of springtime and harvest, the sky, the stars, the sun; but the wonder of wonders that thrills my soul is a wonder that's only begun. O, the wonder of it all. The wonder of it all. Just to think that God loves me. O the wonder of it all. The wonder of it all. Just to think that God loves me.|HGC-148
english|LOVE LIFTED ME||I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking to rise no more; but the Master of the sea heard my despairing cry, from the waters lifted me, now safe am I. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. All my heart to Him I give, ever to Him I'll cling, in His blessed presence live, ever His praises sing. Love so mighty and so true merits my soul's best songs; faithful, loving service too, to Him belongs. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. Souls in danger, look above, Jesus completely saves; He will lift you by His love out of the angry waves. He's the Master of the sea, billows His will obey; He your Saviour wants to be - be saved today. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. Love lifted me. Love lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me.|HGC-149
english|PSALMS 33:1-6, 8, 9, 20, 21||Sing for joy, in the Lord, O you righteous ones; Praise is becoming to the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre; sing praises to Him with a harp of ten strings. Sing to Him a new song; play with a shout of joy. For the word of the Lord is right, and His work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness, and justice too; the earth is full of the lovingkindness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made. And by the breath of His mouth all their host. Sing to Him a new song; play with a shout of joy. For the word of the Lord is right, and His work is done in faithfulness. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants stand in awe of Him. For He spoke and it was done, He commanded, and it stood fast. Sing to Him a new song; play with a shout of joy. For the word of the Lord is right, and His work is done in faithfulness. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our Helper and our Shield. For our heart rejoices in Him, because we trust in His holy name. Sing to Him a new song; play with a shout of joy. For the word of the Lord is right, and His work is done in faithfulness.|HGC-150
english|REVIVE US AGAIN||We praise Thee, O God, for the Son of Thy love, for Jesus who died and is now gone above. Hallelujah. Thine the glory, hallelujah. Amen; hallelujah. Thine the glory, revive us again. We praise Thee, O God, for Thy Spirit of light, Who has shown us our Savior and scattered our night. Hallelujah. Thine the glory, hallelujah. Amen; hallelujah. Thine the glory, revive us again. All glory and praise to the Lamb that was slain, Who has borne all our sins, and has cleansed every stain. Hallelujah. Thine the glory, hallelujah. Amen; hallelujah. Thine the glory, revive us again. Revive us again, fill each heart with Thy love; may each soul be rekindled with fire from above. Hallelujah. Thine the glory, hallelujah. Amen; hallelujah. Thine the glory, revive us again.|HGC-151
english|PSALMS 103:1-7, 10-12||Bless the Lord, O my soul; and all that is within me, bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget none of His benefits; Who pardons all your iniquities; Who heals all your diseases; Who redeems your life from the pit; Who crowns you with lovingkindness and compassion; Who satisfies your years with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle. The Lord performs righteous deeds, and judgments for all who are oppressed. He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the sons of Israel. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is His lovingkindness toward those who fear Him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has He removed our transgressions from us.|HGC-152
english|JESUS! THE VERY THOUGHT OF THEE||Jesus! the very tho't of Thee with sweetness fills my breast; but better far Thy face to see, and in Thy presence rest. No voice can sing, no heart can frame, nor can the mem'ry find a sweeter sound than Thy blest name, O Savior of mankind! O hope of ev'ry contrite heart, O joy of all the meek, to those who fall, how kind Thou art; how good to those who seek! But what to those who find. Ah! this nor tongue nor pen can show, the love of Jesus! what it is none but His loved ones know. Saviour, our only joy be Thou, as Thou our crown shalt be; be Thou, O Lord our glory now and thro' eternity.|HGC-153
english|PASS IT ON||It only takes a spark to get a fire going, And soon all those around Can warm up to its glowing That's how it is with God's love, once you've Experienced it; You spread His love To everyone, You want to pass it on. What a wondrous time is spring, when all the trees are budding, the birds begin to sing, the flowers start their blooming, that's how it is with God's love, once you've experienced it; you want to sing, it's fresh like spring. you want to pass it on. I wish for you my friend, this happiness that I've found. You can depend on Him, it matters not where you're bound. I'll shout it from the mountain top, I want my world to know. The Lord of love has come to me; I want to pass it on.|HGC-154
english|COME TO THE WATER||You said You'd come to share all my sorrows; You said You'd be there for all my tomorrows. I came so close to sending You away, but just like You promised, You came there to stay: I just had to pray. And Jesus said, "Come to the water, stand by my side. I know you are thirsty; you won't be denied. I felt ev'ry tear drop when in darkness you cried, and I strove to remind you that for your sins I died." Your goodness so great, I can't understand, and dear Lord, I know that all this was planned. I know You're here now and always will be. Your love loosed my chains and in You I'm free but Jesus, why me? And Jesus said, "Come to the water, stand by my side. I know you are thirsty; you won't be denied. I felt ev'ry tear drop when in darkness you cried, and I strove to remind you that for your sins I died." Jesus, I give you my heart and my soul. I know that without God I'd never be whole. Savior, You opened all the right doors, and I thank You and praise You from earth's humble shores. Take me I'm Yours! And Jesus said, "Come to the water, stand by my side. I know you are thirsty; you won't be denied. I felt ev'ry tear drop when in darkness you cried, and I strove to remind you that for your sins I died."|HGC-155
english|WHAT A FRIEND WE HAVE IN JESUS||What a Friend we have in Jesus, All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry Everything to God in prayer. O what peace we often forfeit, O what needless pain we bear, All because we do not carry Every thing to God in prayer! Have we trials and temptations. Is there trouble anywhere? We should never be discouraged, Take it to the Lord in prayer. Can we find a friend so faithful Who will all our sorrows share? Jesus knows our every weakness, Take it to the Lord in prayer. Are we weak and heavy laden, Cumbered with a load of care. Precious Savior, still our refuge - Take it to the Lord in prayer. Do thy friends despise, forsake thee? Take it to the Lord in prayer; In His arms He'll take and shield thee, Thou wilt find a solace there.|HGC-156
english|I'D RATHER HAVE JESUS||I'd rather have Jesus than silver or gold. I'd rather have Jesus than riches untold. I'd rather have Jesus than houses or land. I'd rather be led by His nail pierced hand. Than to be the king of a vast domain, And be held in sin's dread sway. I'd rather have Jesus Than anything This world affords today. I'd rather have Jesus than men's applause. I'd rather be faithful to His dear cause. I'd rather have Jesus than worldwide fame. I'd rather be true to His holy name. Than to be the king of a vast domain, and be held in sin's dread sway. I'd rather have Jesus than anything . . this world affords today.|HGC-157
english|TO GOD BE THE GLORY||To God be the glory, great things He hath done, so loved He the world that He gave us His Son, who yielded His life an atonement for sin, and opened the life-gate that all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice! O come to the Father thro' Jesus the Son, and give Him the glory, great things He hath done. O perfect redemption, the purchase of blood, to every believer the promise of God; the vilest offender who truly believes, that moment from Jesus a pardon receives. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice! O come to the Father thro' Jesus the Son, and give Him the glory, great things He hath done. Great things He hath taught us, great things He hath done, and great our rejoicing thro' Jesus the Son; but purer, and higher, and greater will be our wonder, our transport, when Jesus we see. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice! O come to the Father thro' Jesus the Son, and give Him the glory, great things He hath done.|HGC-158
english|YOU ARE MY ALL IN ALL||You are my strength when I am weak You are the treasure that I seek. You are my all in all. Seeking You as a precious jewel. Lord, to give up I'd be a fool! You are my all in all! Jesus Lamb of God. Worthy is your name! Jesus Lamb of God. Worthy is your name! Taking my sin, my cross, my shame rising again I bless you name. You are my all in all. When I fall down you pick me up. When I am dry you fill my cup. You are my all in all! Jesus Lamb of God. Worthy is your name! Jesus Lamb of God. Worthy is your name!|HGC-159
english|STANDING ON THE PROMISES||Standing on the promises of Christ my King, through eternal ages let His praises E7 ring; glory in the highest, I will shout and sing, standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God my Savior; standing, standing, I'm standing on the promises of God. Standing on the promises that cannot fail, when the howling storms of doubt and fear assail, by the living word of God I shall prevail, standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God my Savior; standing, standing, I'm standing on the promises of God. Standing on the promises of Christ the Lord, bound to Him eternally by love's strong cord, overcoming daily by the Spirit's sword, standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God my Savior; standing, standing, I'm standing on the promises of God. Standing on the promises I cannot fall, listening every moment to the Spirit's call, resting in my Savior as my all in all, standing on the promises of God. Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God my Savior; standing, standing, I'm standing on the promises of God.|HGC-160
english|JAMES 4:10||Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and He will lift you up (higher and higher), and He will lift you up.|HGC-161
english|THE CHURCH'S ONE FOUNDATION||The church's one foundation is Jesus Christ her Lord; she is His new creation, by water and the Word: from heaven He came and sought her to be His holy bride; with His own blood He bought her, and for her life He died. Elect from every nation yet one o'er all the earth, her charter of salvation, one Lord, one faith, one birth; one holy name she blesses, partakes one holy food, and to one hope she presses, with every grace endued. Mid toil and tribulation, and tumult of her war, she waits the consummation of peace forevermore; till with the vision glorious her longing eyes are blest, and the great Church victorious shall be the Church at rest.|HGC-162
english|PSALMS 117||Praise the Lord, all nations; laud Him, all peoples! For His lovingkindness is great toward us, and the truth of the Lord is everlasting. Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord!|HGC-163
english|MORE ABOUT JESUS||More about Jesus would I know, more of His grace] to others show; more of His saving fullness see, more of His love who died for me. More, more about Jesus, more, more about Jesus; more of His saving fullness see, more of His love Who died for me. More about Jesus let me learn, more of His holy will discern; Spirit of God, my teacher be, showing the things of Christ to me. More, more about Jesus, more, more about Jesus; more of His saving fullness see, more of His love Who died for me. More about Jesus; in His Word, holding communion with my Lord; hearing His voice in ev'ry line, making each faithful saying mine. More, more about Jesus, more, more about Jesus; more of His saving fullness see, more of His love Who died for me. More about Jesus on His throne, riches in glory all His own; more of His kingdom's sure increase,; more of His coming, Prince of Peace. More, more about Jesus, more, more about Jesus; more of His saving fullness see, more of His love Who died for me.|HGC-164
english|Tis So Sweet to Trust in J||Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus, Just to take Him at His word; Just to rest upon His promise; Just to know, "Thus saith the Lord." Jesus, Jesus, how I trust Him! How I've proved Him o'er and o'er! Jesus, Jesus, precious Jesus! O for grace to trust Him more! O how sweet to trust in Jesus, Just to trust His cleansing blood; Just in simple faith to plunge me Neath the healing, cleansing flood! Yes, 'tis sweet to trust in Jesus, Just from sin and self to cease, Just from Jesus simply taking Life and rest and joy and peace. I'm so glad I learned to trust Thee, Precious Jesus, Savior, Friend; And I know that Thou art with me, Wilt be with me to the end.|HGC-165
english|PSALMS 55:22;16-17||Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He will sustain you; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He will sustain you; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved. As for me, I shall call upon God, and the Lord will save me. Evening and morning and afternoon will I pray and cry aloud, and He will hear my voice. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He will sustain you; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He will sustain you; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved.|HGC-166
english|LOVE DIVINE, ALL PRAISE EXCELLING||Love divine, all praise excelling, joy of heav'n, to earth come down! Bless us with Thy rich indwelling, all Thy faithful mercies crown. Savior, Thee we'd still be blessing, serve Thee here, as soon above, praise Thee, Savior, without ceasing, glory in Thy dying love. First-fruits of Thy new creation - faithful, holy, may we be, joyful in Thy full salvation, more and more conformed to Thee. Changed from glory unto glory, till in heav'n we take our place, there to worship and adore Thee, when we see Thee face to face!|HGC-167
english|THROUGH THE EYES OF A CHILD||Through the eyes of a child, I have seen your love In the whisper of the breeze, I have felt your peace On the waves of the sea, I have seen your power And I stand amazed every day oh Lord. You are in control, You are in control You are Lord of all and I stand amazed every day oh Lord. Through the life of your son, I have seen your mercy In the light of the cross, I have seen your face In the ages to come we will see your victory And we stand amazed every day oh Lord. You are in control, You are in control You are Lord of all and I stand amazed every day oh Lord. Yes we stand amazed oh Lord. (LAST TIME ONLY)|HGC-168
english|HE GIVETH MORE GRACE||He giveth more grace when the burdens grow greater; He sendeth more strength when the labors increase. To added affliction He addeth His mercy; to multiplied trials, His multiplied peace. His love has no limit; His grace has no measure; His pow'r has no boundary known unto men; for out of His infinite riches in Jesus, He giveth, and giveth and giveth again! When we have exhausted our store of endurance, when our strength has failed ere the day is half done, when we reach the end of our hoarded resources, our Father's full giving is only begun. His love has no limit; His grace has no measure; His pow'r has no boundary known unto men; for out of His infinite riches in Jesus, He giveth, and giveth and giveth again!|HGC-169
english|JOHN 14:27 & 16:33||Peace I leave with you; My peace I give to you; Not as the world gives, Do I give to you. Not as the world gives, Do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, Nor let your heart be fearful. Not as the world gives, Do I give to you. These things I have spoken unto you, That in me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, But be of good cheer, Be of good cheer; For I have overcome the world.|HGC-170
english|HIS SHEEP AM I||In God's green pastures feeding, By His cool waters lie Soft in the evening Walk my Lord and I. All the sheep of His pastures Fare so wondrously fine, His sheep am I. Waters cool (in the valley), Pastures green (on the mountain), In the evening (in the evening) Walk my Lord and I. Dark the night (in the valley), Rough the way (on the mountain), Step by step (step by step) My Lord and I. Yes, the Lord is my Shepherd And no want shall I know; He'll guide and comfort me Where e're I go. On the mount, in the valley By His hand He will lead, His sheep am I. Waters cool (in the valley), Pastures green (on the mountain), In the evening (in the evening) Walk my Lord and I. Dark the night (in the valley), Rough the way (on the mountain), Step by step (step by step) My Lord and I.|HGC-171
english|THANK YOU, JESUS||Thank you, Jesus, thank you, Jesus, Thank you, Lord, for loving me. Thank you, Jesus, thank you, Jesus, Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You went to Calvary there You died for me. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You went to Calvary there You died for me. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You rose up from the grave to me new life You gave. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You rose up from the grave to me new life You gave. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You're coming back for me to live eternally. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. You're coming back for me to live eternally. Thank you, Lord, for loving me. Thank you, Jesus, thank you, Jesus, Thank you, Lord, for loving me. Thank you, Jesus, thank you, Jesus, Thank you, Lord, for loving me.|HGC-172
english|SOLDIERS OF CHRIST, ARISE||Soldiers of Christ, arise and put your armor on, strong in the strength which God supplies through His eternal Son; strong in the Lord of hosts, and in His mighty power, who in the strength of Jesus trusts is more than conqueror. Leave no unguarded place, no weakness of the soul; take ev'ry virtue, every grace, and fortify the whole. To keep your armour bright attend with constant care, still walking in your Captain's sight, and watching unto prayer. Stand then in His great might, with all His strength endued, and take, to arm you for the fight, the panoply of God; that having all things done, and all your conflicts past, ye may o'ercome through Christ alone and stand complete at last.|HGC-173
english|II CORINTHIANS 5:14-15||For the love of Christ controls us, Having concluded this, That one died for all Therefore all died; For the love of Christ controls us, Having concluded this, That one died for all Therefore all died; And He died for all, He died for all, That they who live Should no longer live for themselves, But for Him who died, for Him who died, And rose again on their behalf. And He died for all, He died for all, That they who live Might no longer live for themselves For the love of Christ controls us, Having concluded this, That one died for all Therefore all died;|HGC-174
english|LORD, IN THE FULLNESS OF MY MIGHT||Lord, in the fullness of my might, I would for Thee be strong; while runneth o'er each dear delight, to Thee should soar my song. I would not give the world my heart, and then profess Thy love; I would not feel my strength depart, and then Thy service prove. I would not with swift winged zeal on the world's errands go: and labor up the heav'nly hill with weary feet and slow. O not for Thee my weak desires, my poorer baser part! O not for Thee my fading fires, the ashes of my heart. O choose me in my golden time, in my dear joys have part. For Thee the glory of my prime, the fullness of my heart.|HGC-175
english|PSALMS 25:8-10,4-5||Good and upright is the Lord; Therefore will He teach sinners in the way. The meek will He guide in judgment, The meek will He teach His way. All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth Unto such as keep His covenant and His testimonies. Show me Thy ways, O Lord; And teach me Thy paths. Lead me in Thy truth and teach me, For Thou art the God of my salvation; And on Thee do I wait all the day.|HGC-176
english|HOW GREAT THOU ART||O Lord my God! When I in awesome wonder Consider all the worlds Thy hands have made, I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, Thy pow'r through-out the universe displayed, Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! When through the woods and forest glades I wander And hear the birds sing sweetly in the trees; When I look down from lofty mountain grandeur And hear the brook and feel the gentle breeze, Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! And when I think that God, His Son not sparing Sent Him to die, I scarce can take it in; That on the cross, my burden gladly bearing, He bled and died to take away my sin! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! When Christ shall come with shout of acclamation And take me home, what joy shall fill my heart! Then I shall bow in humble adoration And there proclaim, my God, how great Thou art! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art! Then sings my soul, my Savior God to Thee; How great Thou art, how great Thou art!|HGC-177
english|PSALMS 34:3||Oh magnify the Lord with me, And let us exalt His Name together. The Name that sets the captives free. Oh, let's exalt His name forever.|HGC-178
english|HE'S EVERYTHING TO ME||In the stars His handiwork I see, On the wind He speaks With majesty, Though He ruleth over land and sea, What is that to me? I will celebrate Nativity, For it has a place in history. Sure, He came to set His people free, What is that to me? Til by faith I met Him face to face, And I felt the wonder of His grace, Then I knew that He was more than just a God who didn't care, That lived a way out there. And now He walks beside me day by day, Ever watching o'er me lest I stray, Helping me to find that narrow way, He's everything to me!|HGC-179
english|TURN YOUR EYES UPON JESUS||O soul, are you weary and troubled. No light in the darkness you see. There's light for a look at the Savior, And life more abundant and free! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim, In the light of His glory and grace. Through death into life everlasting He passed and we follow Him there; Over us sin no more hath dominion - For more than conqu'rors we are! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim, In the light of His glory and grace. His word shall not fail you - He promised; Believe Him,and all will be well; Then go to a world that is dying, His perfect salvation to tell! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim, In the light of His glory and grace.|HGC-180
english|HAVE YOU SEEN JESUS MY LORD?||Have you ever looked at the sunset, with the sky mellowing red. And the clouds suspended like feathers. Then I say, you've seen Jesus my Lord. Have you seen Jesus my Lord. He's here in plain view. Take a look open your eyes, He'll show it to you. Have you ever stood at the ocean. With the white foam at your feet. Felt the endless thundering motion? Then I say, you've seen Jesus my Lord. Have you seen Jesus my Lord. He's here in plain view. Take a look open your eyes, He'll show it to you. Have you ever looked at the cross. With a man hanging in pain. Seen the look of love in His eyes? Then I say, you've seen Jesus my Lord. Have you seen Jesus my Lord. He's here in plain view. Take a look open your eyes, He'll show it to you. Have you ever stood in a family, with Christ there in your midst. Seen the face of Christ on your brother? Then I say, you've seen Jesus my Lord. Have you seen Jesus my Lord. He's here in plain view. Take a look open your eyes, He'll show it to you.|HGC-181
english|PSALMS 30:4-5||Sing praise to the Lord, you His godly ones, and give thanks to His holy name. For His anger is but for a moment, and His favor is for a lifetime; Weeping may last for the night, but a shout of joy comes in the morning light.|HGC-182
english|KEEPS ME SINGING||There's within my heart a melody, Jesus whispers sweet and low, Fear not, I am with thee, peace, be still," in all of life's ebb and flow. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, sweetest name I know. Fills my ev'ry longing, keeps me singing as I go. All my life was wrecked by sin and strife, discord filled my heart with pain. Jesus swept across the broken string, stirred the slumb'ring chords again. Feasting on the riches of His grace, resting 'neath Hisshelt'ring wing, always looking on His smiling face, that is why I shout and sing. Though sometimes He leads through waters deep, trials fall across the way, though sometimes the path seems rough and steep, see His footprints all the way. Soon He's coming back to welcome me, far beyond the starry sky; I shall wing my flight to worlds unknown, I shall reign with Him on high.|HGC-183
english|JOHN 14:23||If a man loves Me, He will keep My word; If a man loves Me, He will keep My word; And My Father will love him, And We will come unto him, And make Our abode with him.|HGC-184
english|CHRIST THE LORD IS RISEN TODAY||Christ the Lord is risen today, alleluia! Sons of men and angels say: alleluia! Raise your joys and triumphs high, alleluia! Sing, ye heavens, and earth reply, alleluia! Lives again our glorious King, alleluia! Where, O death, is now thy sting. Alleluia! Dying once, He all doth save: alleluia! Where thy victory, O grave. Alleluia! Love's redeeming work is done, alleluia! Fought the fight, the battle won; alleluia! Death in vain forbids Him rise; alleluia! Christ has opened Paradise. Alleluia! Soar we now where Christ has led, alleluia! Following our exalted Head; alleluia! Made like Him, like Him we rise; alleluia! Ours the cross, the grave, the skies. Alleluia!|HGC-185
english|PSALMS 59:16,17||But as for me, But as for me, I will sing of Thy strength; I will sing of Thy strength; Yes, I shall joyfully sing of Thy lovingkindness In the morning, for Thou hast been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress. O my strength, O my strength, I will sing, I will sing, Praises to Thee; for God is my stronghold, The God who shows me lovingkindness.|HGC-186
english|HE IS MY EVERYTHING||He is my everything, He is my all. He is my everything both great and small. He gave His life for me, made everything new. He is my everything - now how about you? Some folks may ask me some folks may say who is this Jesus, you talk about every day?" He is my Savior and He set me free, now listen while I tell you what He means to me: He is my everything, He is my all. He is my everything both great and small. He gave His life for me, made everything new. He is my everything - now how about you?|HGC-187
english|ASSURANCE MARCH||Can we know that Jesus saves us, can we know - be assured each moment, everywhere we go. Can we know our sins are all forgiven, washed away? That our path is leading to God's perfect day. Oh yes, we can know, can know our sins are washed away; chapter one, verse 12 of John  is the ground we stand upon. We can know that Jesus saves us, we can know - be assured each moment, everywhere we go. We can know our sins are all forgiven, washed away. That our path is leading to God's perfect day.|HGC-188
english|SAVED, SAVED, SAVED!||I've found a Friend who is all to me, His love is ever true; I love to tell how He lifted me, and what His grace can do for you. Saved by His pow'r divine, saved to new life sublime! Life now is sweet and my joy is complete, for I'm saved, saved, saved! He saves me from every sin and harm, secures my soul each day; I'm leaning strong on His mighty arm; I know He'll guide me all the way. Saved by His pow'r divine, saved to new life sublime! Life now is sweet and my joy is complete, for I'm saved, saved, saved! When poor and needy and all alone, in love He said to me, Come unto Me and I'll lead you home, to live with Me eternally." Saved by His pow'r divine, saved to new life sublime! Life now is sweet and my joy is complete, for I'm saved, saved, saved!|HGC-189
english|PSALMS 138:4-6||All the kings of the earth Will give thanks to Thee, O Lord, When they have heard the words of Thy mouth. And they will sing of the ways of the Lord. For great is the glory of the Lord. For though the Lord is exalted, Yet He regards the lowly; But the haughty He knows from afar. All the kings of the earth Will give thanks to Thee, O Lord, When they have heard the words of Thy mouth.|HGC-190
english|PHILIPPIANS 4:4||Rejoice in the Lord always; And again I say, rejoice! Rejoice in the Lord always; And again I say, rejoice! Rejoice, rejoice, And again I say rejoice. Rejoice, rejoice, And again I say rejoice.|HGC-191
english|COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS||When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed, When you are discouraged, Thinking all is lost, Count your many blessings, Name them one by one And it will surprise you what the Lord hath done. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your blessings, See what God hath done. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God hath done. Are you ever burdened with a load of care? Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear? Count your many blessings, Ev'ry doubt will fly, And you will be singing as the days go by. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your blessings, See what God hath done. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your many blessings, See what God hath done. When you look at others with their lands of gold, Think that Christ has promised you His wealth untold. Count your many blessings, Money cannot buy Your reward in heaven nor your home on high. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your blessings, See what God hath done. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your many blessings, See what God hath done. So amid the conflict, Whether great or small, Do not be discouraged God is over all; Count your many blessings, Angels will attend, Help and comfort give you to your journey's end. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your blessings, See what God hath done. Count your blessings, Name them one by one. Count your many blessings, See what God hath done.|HGC-192
english|II SAMUEL 22:29, PSALMS 119:105, II PETER 1:19||For Thou art my lamp, O Lord; and the Lord illumines my darkness. Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path. And so we have the prophetic word made more sure, to which you do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your hearts.|HGC-193
english|ARISE, MY SOUL, ARISE!||Arise, my soul, arise, shake off thy guilty fears; the Saviour's sacrifice in my behalf appears; before the throne my Surety stands, before the throne my Surety stands: my name is written on His hands. He ever lives above, for me to intercede, His all redeeming love, His precious blood to plead: His blood atoned for all our race, His blood atoned for all our race, and sprinkles now the throne of grace. Five dreadful wounds He bears, received on Calvary; They pour effectual prayers, they strongly plead for me: Forgive him, O forgive," they cry, "forgive him, O forgive," they cry, "nor let that ransomed sinner die!" Now I am reconciled; God's pard'ning voice I hear; He owns me for His child; I can no longer fear; with confidence I now draw nigh, with confidence I now' draw nigh, and, "Father, Abba, Father," cry.|HGC-194
english|ROMANS 8:35||Who shall separate us From the love of Christ? Who shall separate us From the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, Or famine or nakedness, Neither peril nor sword, From the love of our Lord. Who shall separate us From the love of Christ?|HGC-195
english|REDEEMED||Redeemed - how I love to proclaim it! Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed through His infinite mercy, His child, and forever, I am. Redeemed (redeemed) redeemed (redeemed) Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed (redeemed)redeemed (redeemed) His child, and forever, I am. Redeemed and so happy in Jesus, No language my rapture can tell; I know that the light of His presence With me doth continually dwell. Redeemed (redeemed) redeemed (redeemed) Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed (redeemed)redeemed (redeemed) His child, and forever, I am. I think of my blessed Redeemer, I think of Him all the day long; I sing, for I cannot be silent; His love is the theme of my song. Redeemed (redeemed) redeemed (redeemed) Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed (redeemed)redeemed (redeemed) His child, and forever, I am. I know I shall see in His beauty The King in whose law I delight; Who lovingly guardeth my footsteps, And giveth me songs in the night. Redeemed (redeemed) redeemed (redeemed) Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed (redeemed)redeemed (redeemed) His child, and forever, I am.|HGC-196
english|FOREVER GRATEFUL||You did not wait for me to draw near to You, But You clothed Yourself with frail humanity. You did not wait for me to cry out to You, But You let me hear Your voice calling me. And I'm forever grateful to You, I'm forever grateful for the cross I'm forever grateful to You, That You came to seek and save the lost.|HGC-197
english|WONDERFUL GRACE OF JESUS||Wonderful grace of Jesus, Greater than all my sin; How shall my tongue describe it, Where shall its praise begin? Taking away my burden, Setting my spirit free; For the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus, Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me, Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name! Wonderful grace of Jesus, Reaching to all the lost, By it I have been pardoned, Saved to the uttermost; Chains have been torn asunder, Giving me liberty; For the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus, Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me, Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name! Wonderful grace of Jesus, Reaching the most defiled, By its transforming power Making him God's dear child, Purchasing peace and heaven For all eternity; And the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus, Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me, Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name!|HGC-198
english|REVELATION 4:8||Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, Almighty, Who was and Who is, and Who is to come. Glory, glory, glory to the Lord God, Almighty, Who died and now lives and Who is to come. Oh, God fill our hearts with the love of Jesus Christ, and You, You. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, Almighty, Who was and Who is, and Who is to come.|HGC-199
english|PRAISE HIM! PRAISE HIM!||Praise Him! Praise Him! Jesus, our blessed Redeemer! Sing, O earth, His wonderful love proclaim! Hail Him! Hail Him! Highest archangels in glory; Strength and honor give to His holy name! Like a shepherd Jesus will guard His children, in His arms He carries them all day long: Praise Him! Praise Him! Tell of His excellent greatness; praise Him! Praise Him, ever in joyful song! Praise Him! Praise Him! Jesus, our blessed Redeemer! For our sins He suffered, and bled, and died; He our Rock, our Hope of eternal salvation, Hail Him! Hail Him! Jesus the Crucified. Sound His praises! Jesus who bore our sorrows; love unbounded, wonderful, deep, and strong: Praise Him! Praise Him! Tell of His excellent greatness; praise Him! Praise Him, ever in joyful song! Praise Him! Praise Him! Jesus, our blessed Redeemer! Heavenly portals loud with hosannas ring! Jesus, Savior, reigneth forever and ever, crown Him! Crown Him! Prophet and Priest, and King! Christ is coming! over the world victorious; power and glory unto the Lord belong: Praise Him! Praise Him! Tell of His excellent greatness; praise Him! Praise Him, ever in joyful song!|HGC-200
english|REVELATION 4:11||Thou are worthy, Thou are worthy, Thou art worthy, Oh Lord. Thou art worthy to receive glory, glory and honor and power; for Thou hast created, hast all things created, for Thou hast created all things, and for Thy pleasure, they are created, Thou art worthy, Oh Lord.|HGC-201
english|ONLY A SINNER||Naught have I gotten but what I received; grace hath bestowed it since I have believed; boasting excluded, pride I abase; I'm only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! This is my story, to God be the glory - I'm only a sinner saved by grace! Once I was foolish, and sin ruled my heart, causing my footsteps from God to depart; Jesus hath found me happy my case; I now am a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! This is my story, to God be the glory - I'm only a sinner saved by grace! Tears unavailing, no merit had I; mercy had saved me, or else I must die; sin had alarmed me, fearing God's face; but now I'm a sinner saved by grace. Only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! This is my story, to God be the glory - I'm only a sinner saved by grace! Suffer a sinner whose heart overflows, loving his Savior to tell what he knows; once more to tell it would I embrace - I'm only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! Only a sinner saved by grace! This is my story, to God be the glory - I'm only a sinner saved by grace!|HGC-202
english|EPHESIANS 3:21||Unto Him be the glory in the church, both now and evermore. Unto Him be the glory in the church, both now and evermore. Unto Him, unto Him, unto Him, unto Him, unto Him be the glory in the church both now and evermore.|HGC-203
english|JESUS, I AM RESTING||Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what Thou art; I am finding out the greatness of Thy loving heart. Thou hast bid me gaze upon Thee, and Thy beauty fills my soul, for by Thy transforming power, Thou hast made me whole. Jesus, I am resting, resting, in the joy of what Thou art; I am finding out the greatness of Thy loving heart. Oh, how great Thy loving kindness, vaster, broader than the sea! Oh, how marvelous Thy goodness, lavished all on me! Yes, I rest in Thee, Beloved, know what wealth of grace is Thine, know Thy certainty of promise, and have made it mine. Simply trusting Thee, Lord Jesus, I behold Thee as Thou art, and Thy love, so pure, so changeless, satisfies my heart; satisfies its deepest longings, meets, supplies its every need, compasseth me round with blessings: Thine is love indeed! Ever lift Thy face upon me, as I work and wait for Thee; resting 'neath Thy smile, Lord Jesus, earth's dark shadows flee. Brightness of my Father's glory, sunshine of my Father's face, keep me ever trusting, resting, fill me with Thy grace.|HGC-204
english|FAITH IS THE VICTORY||Faith is the victory, faith is the victory. Oh glorious victory that overcomes the world.|HGC-205
english|HE HIDETH MY SOUL||A wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord, a wonderful Savior to me; He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock, where rivers of pleasure I see. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock that shadows a dry, thirsty land; He hideth my life in the depths of His love, and covers me there with His hand, and covers me there with His hand. A wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord, He taketh my burden away; He holdeth me up, and I shall not be moved, He giveth me strength as my day. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock that shadows a dry, thirsty land; He hideth my life in the depths of His love, and covers me there with His hand, and covers me there with His hand. With numberless blessings each moment He crowns, and filled with His fullness divine, I sing in my rapture, oh, glory to God for such a Redeemer as mine! He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock that shadows a dry, thirsty land; He hideth my life in the depths of His love, and covers me there with His hand, and covers me there with His hand. When clothed in His brightness, transported I rise to meet Him in clouds of the sky, His perfect salvation, His wonderful love, I'll shout with the millions on high. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock that shadows a dry, thirsty land; He hideth my life in the depths of His love, and covers me there with His hand, and covers me there with His hand.|HGC-206
english|JOHN 13:34-35||A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another, as I have loved you, that you love one another, as I have loved you. By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you have love one for another. By this shall all men know that you are My disciples, if you have love one for another.|HGC-207
english|Who Killed Jesus?||Was it Roman soldiers, With their tools of war Driving nails through Hands that did no wrong? Mocking and abusing, Crowning Him with thorns All the evidence is very strong. Who killed Jesus many years ago? Who is guilty of a crime so low? Why did He have to die? What is the reason why? Who killed Jesus? I would like to know Was it Pontius Pilate? He was governor, Trying to decide The case that day. Finding that the Savior Had no fault His own Was he guilty when he turned away? Was it His disciple? Judas was his name- Should this traitor friend Deserve the blame? He sold out the Savior Betrayed Him with a kiss If we blame him would we be amiss? Was it Hebrew children, Proud of who they were? Shouting, Crucify Him!" at their King? Trading their Messiah For a common thief Turning down the kingdom He could bring? When I think of Jesus And the way He died, How upon Him All my sin was laid, All the other people Fade away from view It's for me the sacrifice was made I no longer wonder any more I have found what I've been searching for! My sin demanded Hell On Him the judgment fell I am guilty. Now it's plain to see that it was really me!|HGC-208
english|HALLELUJAH! WHAT A SAVIOR!||Man of Sorrows!. what a name for the Son of God who came ruined sinners to reclaim! Hallelujah! what a Savior! Bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned He stood; sealed my pardon with His blood; Hallelujah! what a Savior! Guilty, vile and helpless we; spotless Lamb of God was He; full atonement" can it be. Hallelujah! what a Savior! Lifted up was He to die, It is finished," was His cry; now in heaven exalted high; hallelujah! what a Savior! When He comes, our glorious King, all His ransomed home to bring, then anew this song we'll sing: hallelujah! what a Savior!|HGC-209
english|PEACE JOY LOVE||I've got peace like a river, I've got peace like a river, I've got peace like a river in my soul. I've got peace like a river, I've got peace like a river, I've got peace like a river in my soul. I've got joy like a fountain, I've got joy like a fountain, I've got joy like a fountain in my soul. I've got joy like a fountain, I've got joy like a fountain, I've got joy like a fountain in my soul. I've got love like an ocean, I've got love like and ocean, I've got love like an ocean in my soul. I've got love like an ocean, I've got love like and ocean, I've got love like an ocean in my soul. I've got life that lasts forever, I've got life that lasts forever, I've got life that lasts forever in my soul. I've got life that lasts forever, I've got life that lasts forever, I've got life that lasts forever in my soul.|HGC-210
english|PSALMS 119:9-11||Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed to Thy Word. By taking heed to Thy Word. With my whole heart I have sought Thee; With my whole heart I have sought Thee; With my whole heart I have sought Thee; O let me not wander from Thy commands. O let me not wander from Thy commands.|HGC-211
english|PSALMS 25:1, 2, 4, 7, 14, 16, 20||Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. Unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me. Show me Thy ways, Thy ways, O Lord; Show me Thy ways, Thy ways, O Lord; O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me. Remember not the sins of my youth. Remember not the sins of my youth. O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him, The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him, O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me. Turn Thee unto me, and have mercy upon me, Turn Thee unto me, and have mercy upon me, O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me. O keep my soul, and deliver me. O keep my soul, and deliver me. O my God, I trust in Thee, let me not be ashamed; let not my enemies triumph over me.|HGC-212
english|Crown Him with Many Crowns||Crown Him with many crowns The Lamb upon His throne Hark how the heav'nly anthem drowns All music but its own Awake my soul and sing Of Him who died for thee And hail Him as thy matchless King Through all eternity Crown Him the Lord of love Behold His hands and side Rich wounds yet visible above In beauty glorified No angel in the sky Can fully bear that sight But downward bends his wandering eye At mysteries so bright Crown Him the Lord of life Who triumphed o'er the grave Who rose victorious to the strife For those He came to save His glories now we sing Who died and rose on high Who died eternal life to bring And lives that death may die Crown Him the Lord of Heav'n One with the Father known One with the Spirit through Him giv'n From yonder glorious throne To Thee be endless praise For Thou for us hast died Be Thou O Lord through endless days Adored and magnified Crown Him with many crowns The Lamb upon His throne Hark how the heavenly anthem drowns All music but its own Awake my soul and sing Of Him who died for thee And hail Him as thy matchless King Through all eternity|HGC-213
english|ZECHARIAH 4:6||Not by might nor by power, but by my Spirit," says the Lord. Not by might nor by power, but by my Spirit," says the Lord. This mountain shall be removed. This mountain shall be removed. This mountain shall be removed. By my Spirit," says the Lord.|HGC-214
english|FAITH OF OUR FATHERS||Faith of our fathers! living still in spite of dungeon, fire and sword, O how our hearts beat high with joy whene'er we hear that glorious word! Faith of our fathers! holy faith! We will be true to thee till death! Our fathers, chained in prisons dark, were still in heart and conscience free: how sweet would be their children's fate, if they, like them, could die for thee! Faith of our fathers! holy faith! We will be true to thee till death! Faith of our fathers! we will love both friend and foe in all our strife: and preach thee, too, as love knows how, by kindly words and virtuous life. Faith of our fathers! holy faith! We will be true to thee till death!|HGC-215
english|CHRIST AROSE||Low in the grave He lay - Jesus my Savior! Waiting the coming day - Jesus my Lord! Up from the grave He arose, with a mighty triumph o'er His foes; He arose a Victor from the dark domain, and He lives forever with His saints to reign. A D A E7 A He arose. He arose. Hallelujah. Christ arose! Vainly they watch His bed - Jesus my Savior! Vainly they seal the dead - Jesus my Lord! Death cannot keep his prey - Jesus my Savior! He tore the bars away - Jesus my Lord!|HGC-216
english|WHERE HE LEADS ME I WILL FOLLOW||I can hear my Savior calling, I can hear my Savior calling, I can hear my Savior calling, "Take thy cross and follow, follow Me." Where He leads me I will follow, where He leads me I will follow, where He leads me I will follow, I'll go with Him, with Him all the way. He will give me grace and glory, He will give me grace and glory, He will give me grace and glory, and go with me all the way. Where He leads me I will follow, where He leads me I will follow, where He leads me I will follow, I'll go with Him, with Him all the way.|HGC-217
english|HAVE THINE OWN WAY||Have Thine own way, Lord. Have Thine own way! Thou art the Potter; I am the clay. Mold me and make me after Thy will, while I am waiting, yielded and still. Have Thine own way, Lord. Have Thine own way! Search me and try me, Master, today. Whiter than snow, Lord, wash me just now, as in Thy presence humbly I bow. Have Thine own way, Lord. Have Thine own way! Wounded and weary, help me, I pray. Power - all power - surely is Thine. Touch me and heal me, Savior divine! Have Thine own way, Lord. Have Thine own way! Hold o'er my being absolute sway. Fill with Thy Spirit till all shall see Christ only, always living in me!|HGC-218
english|POWER IN THE BLOOD||Would you be free from the burden of sin? There's power in the blood, power in the blood. Would you o'er evil a victory win? There's wonderful power in the blood. There is power, power, wonder working power in the blood of the Lamb; there is power, power, wonder working power in the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you be free from your passion and pride? There's power in the blood, power in the blood. Come for a cleansing to Calvary's tide. There's wonderful power in the blood. There is power, power, wonder working power in the blood of the Lamb; there is power, power, wonder working power in the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you be whiter, much whiter than snow? There's power in the blood, power in the blood. Sin-stains are lost in its life-giving flow. There's wonderful power in the blood. There is power, power, wonder working power in the blood of the Lamb; there is power, power, wonder working power in the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you do service for Jesus your King? There's power in the blood, power in the blood. Would you live daily His praises to sing? There's wonderful power in the blood. There is power, power, wonder working power in the blood of the Lamb; there is power, power, wonder working power in the precious blood of the Lamb.|HGC-219
english|REVELATION 12:11||They have overcome him by the blood of the Lamb. They have overcome him by the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, they did not love their lives so much as to shrink from death. They have overcome him by the blood of the Lamb. They have overcome him by the blood of the Lamb.|HGC-220
english|PSALMS 18:46||Oh, magnify the Lord for He is worthy to be praised! Hosannah, blessed be the rock; blessed be the rock of my salvation. Hosannah, blessed be the rock; and may the God of my salvation be exalted.|HGC-221
english|I TIMOTHY 4:12||Let no one look down, let no one look down, let no onelook down on your youthfulness, Let no one look down, let no one look down, let no onelook down on your youthfulness, But rather in speech, conduct, love, faith and purity, show yourself an example of those who believe. Let no one look down, let no one look down, let no onelook down on your youthfulness, Let no one look down, let no one look down, let no onelook down on your youthfulness,|HGC-222
english|PSALMS 47||O clap your hands, all peoples; shout to God with the voice of joy. For the Lord Most High is to be feared, a great King over all the earth. He subdues the people under us, and the nations under our feet. He chooses our inheritance for us, the glory of Jacob whom He loves. O clap your hands, all peoples; shout to God with the voice of joy. For the Lord Most High is to be feared, a great King over all the earth. God has ascended with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God, sing praises; sing praises to our King. For God is the King of all the earth; sing praises with a skillful psalm. God reigns over all the nations, God sits on His holy throne. The princes of the people have assembled themselves as the people of the God of Abraham; for the shields of the earth belong to God; He is highly exalted. O clap your hands, all peoples; shout to God with the voice of joy. For the Lord Most High is to be feared, a great King over all the earth.|HGC-223
english|ROMANS 14:8||For if we live, we live for Jesus, or if we die, we die for Jesus. So if we live or if we die we are the Lord's. We are the Lord's!|HGC-224
english|O SACRED HEAD, NOW WOUNDED||O sacred Head, now wounded, with grief and shame weighed down; now scornfully surrounded with thorns Thine only crown; how art Thou pale with anguish, with sore abuse and scorn. How does that visage languish which once was bright as morn! What Thou, my Lord, hast suffered was all for sinners' gain: mine, mine was the transgression, but Thine the deadly pain. Lo, here I fall, my Savior. 'Tis I deserve Thy place; look on me with Thy favor, vouchsafe to me Thy grace. What language shall I borrow to thank Thee, dearest Friend: for this Thy dying sorrow, Thy pity without end? O make me Thine forever; and should I fainting be, Lord, let me never, never outlive my love to Thee.|HGC-225
english|TAKE MY LIFE AND LET IT BE||Take my life, and let it be consecrated, Lord to Thee; take my hands, and let them move at the impulse of Thy love, at the impulse of Thy love. Take my feet, and let them be swift and beautiful for Thee; take my voice, and let me sing always, only, for my King, always, only, for my King. Take my lips, and let them be filled with messages for Thee; take my silver and my gold, not a mite would I withhold, not a mite would I withhold. Take my love, my God, I pour at Thy feet its treasure store; take myself and I will be ever, only, all for Thee, ever, only, all for Thee.|HGC-226
english|MY FAITH LOOKS UP TO THEE||My faith looks up to Thee, Thou Lamb of Calvary, Savior divine; now hear me when I pray, take all my sin away, O let me from this day be wholly Thine! May Thy rich grace impart strength to my fainting heart, my zeal inspire; as Thou hast died for me, O may my love to Thee Pure, warm and changeless be - a living fire! While life's dark maze I tread and griefs around me spread, be Thou my guide; bid darkness turn to day, wipe sorrow's tears away, nor let me ever stray from Thee aside. When ends life's transient dream, when death's cold sullen stream shall o'er me roll, blest Savior, then, in love, fear and distrust remove - O bear me safe above, a ransomed soul.|HGC-227
english|LET'S TALK ABOUT JESUS||Let's talk about Jesus, the King of Kings is He, the Lord of Lords supreme, through all eternity, the great "I Am", the Way, the Truth, the Life, the Door. Let's talk about Jesus, more and more. More and more (More and more) I want to magnify His name, more and more (More and more) I want to spread abroad His fame, more and more (more and more) Oh, make my life a living flame, melt my heart, precious Lord, more and more.|HGC-228
english|PSALMS 67||God be gracious to us and bless us, and cause His face to shine upon us. That Thy way may be known on the earth, Thy salvation among all nations. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee. Let the nations be glad, and sing for joy; and sing for joy; for Thou wilt judge the peoples with uprightness, and guide the nations on the earth. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee. The earth has yielded its produce; God, our God, blesses us. God blesses us, that all the ends of the earth may fear Him. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee. Let the peoples praise Thee, O God; let all the peoples praise Thee.|HGC-229
english|JOHN 11:25-27||I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes in Me shall live even if he dies, I am the resurrection and the life; he who believes in Me shall live even if he dies, and everyone who lives and believes in Me shall never die, shall never die, shall never die. Do you believe this? Yes, Lord; I have believed that you are the Christ, Yes, Lord, I have believed that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world.|HGC-230
english|PSALMS 42:1-2,5||As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants for Thee, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? When shall I come and appear before God? Before the living God. As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants for Thee, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, For the help of His presence. As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants for Thee, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God.|HGC-231
english|THE WAY THAT HE LOVES||The way that He loves is as fair as the day, that blesses my day with light. The way that He loves is as soft as the breeze, caressing the trees at night. So tender and precious is He, contented with Jesus I'll be. The way that He loves is so thrilling because His love reaches even me. The way that He loves is as deep as the sea, His Spirit shall be my stay. The way that He loves is as pure as a rose, much sweeter He grows each day. His peace hovers near like a dove, I know there's a heaven above. To Jesus I'll cling, life's a wonderful thing, because of the way He loves.|HGC-232
english|Trust and Obey||When we walk with the Lord In the light of His Word What a glory He sheds on our way! While we do His good will, He abides with us still, And with all who will trust and obey. Trust and obey, for there's no other way To be happy in Jesus, but to trust and obey. But we never can prove The delights of His love Until all on the altar we lay. For the favor He shows And the joy He bestows, Are for them who will trust and obey. Then in fellowship sweet We will sit at His feet, Or we'll walk by His side in the way; what He says we will do, Where He sends we will go, Never fear, only trust and obey.|HGC-233
english|ROMANS 12:1-2||I urge you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of love. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind,* that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good, acceptable and perfect. I urge you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of love. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind,|HGC-234
english|ISAIAH 41:10||Do not fear, for I am with you; (Do not fear, for I am with you) be not anxious for I am your God. (Be not anxious for I am your God) I will strengthen you, (I will strengthen you) surely I will help you, (surely I will help you) Surely I'll uphold you with My righteous right hand. Do not fear for I am with you.|HGC-235
english|BE THOU MY VISION||Be Thou my vision, O Lord of my heart - naught be all else to me, save that Thou art; Thou my best thought, by day or by night - waking or sleeping, Thy presence my light. Be Thou my wisdom, and Thou my true word - I ever with Thee and Thou with me, Lord; Thou my great Father, I Thy true son - Thou in me dwelling, and I with Thee one. Riches I heed not, nor man's empty praise - Thou mine inheritance, now and always; Thou and Thou only, first in my heart - High King of heaven, my treasure Thou art. High King of heaven, my victory won, may I reach heaven's joys, O bright heav'n's Sun! Heart of my own heart, whatever befall, still be my vision, O ruler of all.|HGC-236
english|GRACE GREATER THAN ALL OUR SIN||Marvelous grace of our loving Lord, grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt, yonder on Calvary's mount outpoured, there where the blood of the Lamb was spilt. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within; grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sin. Sin and despair like the sea waves cold, threaten the soul with infinite loss; grace that is greater, yes, grace untold, points to the Refuge, the mighty cross. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within; grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sin. Dark is the stain that we cannot hide, what can avail to wash it away? Look! There is flowing a crimson tide; whiter than snow you may be today. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within; grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sin. Marvelous, infinite, matchless grace, freely bestowed on all who believe; you that are longing to see His face, will you this moment His grace receive? Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within; grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sin.|HGC-237
english|ROMANS 5:1, 1:17||Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace, peace with God. Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace, peace with God. But my righteous one shall live by faith, shall live by faith. But my righteous one shall live by faith, shall live by faith. Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace, peace with God. Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace, peace with God.|HGC-238
english|DAY BY DAY||Day by day and with each passing moment, strength I find to meet my trials here; trusting in my Father's wise bestowment, I've no cause for worry or for fear. He whose heart is kind beyond all measure gives unto each day what He deems best, lovingly its part of pain and pleasure, mingling toil with peace and rest. Ev'ry day the Lord Himself is near me with a special mercy for each hour; all my cares He fain would bear and cheer me, He whose name is Counselor and Pow'r. The protection of His child and treasure is a charge that on Himself He laid; As thy days, thy strength shall be in measure," this pledge to me He made. Help me then in ev'ry tribulation so to trust Thy promises, O Lord, that I lose not faith's sweet consolation offered me within Thy holy word. Help me, Lord, when toil and trouble meeting; e'er to take, as from a father's hand, one by one, the days, the moments fleeting, till I reach the promised land.|HGC-239
english|PSALMS 73:25,26||Whom have I, (Whom have I) In heaven but Thee? (In heaven but Thee) And there is none upon the earth that I desire besides Thee. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forevermore.|HGC-240
english|HEAVEN CAME DOWN AND GLORY FILLED MY SOUL||O what a wonderful, wonderful day day I will never forget; after I'd wandered in darkness away, Jesus my Savior I met. O what a tender, compassionate Friend He met the need of my heart; shadows dispelling, with joy I am telling, He made all the darkness depart! Heaven came down and glory filled my soul, when at the cross the Savior made me whole; my sins were washed away and my night was turned to day heaven came down and glory filled my soul! Born of the Spirit with life from above into God's family divine, justified fully through Calvary's love, O what a standing is mine. And the transaction so quickly was made when as a sinner I came, took of the offer of grace He did proffer He saved me, O praise His dear name! Heaven came down and glory filled my soul, when at the cross the Savior made me whole; my sins were washed away and my night was turned to day heaven came down and glory filled my soul! Now I've a hope that will surely endure after the passing of time; I have a future in heaven for sure, there in those mansions sublime. And it's because of that wonderful day when at the cross I believed; riches eternal and blessings supernal from His precious hand I received. Heaven came down and glory filled my soul, when at the cross the Savior made me whole; my sins were washed away and my night was turned to day heaven came down and glory filled my soul!|HGC-241
english|PSALMS 20:6-8||Some boast in chariots, and some in horses; but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. Some boast in chitties, and some in 4 by 4s; but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. Now I know that the Lord saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven, with the saving strength of His right hand. They have bowed down and fallen; but we have risen and stood upright. Some boast in chariots, and some in horses; but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. Some boast in chitties, and some in 4 by 4s; but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God.|HGC-242
english|ONLY ONE LIFE||Only one life to offer Jesus, my Lord and King; only one tongue to praise Thee and of Thy mercies sing forever; Only one heart's devotion Savior, oh may it be consecrated alone to Thy matchless glory, yielded fully to Thee. Only this hour is mine, Lord may it be used for Thee; may every passing moment count for eternity my Savior; Souls all about are dying, dying in sin and shame; help me bring them the message of Calvary's redemption in Thy glorious name. Only one life to offer take it, dear Lord, I pray; nothing from Thee withholding, Thy will I now obey my Jesus; Thou who hast freely given Thine all in all for me, claim this life for Thine own, to be used, my Savior, every moment for Thee.|HGC-243
english|PSALMS 48:1-2||Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God, in the mountain of His holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great King. Is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.|HGC-244
english|PSALMS 5:1-3||Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my meditation. Harken unto the voice of my cry, my King and my God, for unto Thee will I pray. My voice shalt Thou hear in the morning; O Lord, in the morning will I direct my prayer unto Thee and will look up.|HGC-245
english|PSALMS 70:4||Let all who seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee. Let all who seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee. And let those who love, Love Thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified, Let God be magnified, Let God be magnified.|HGC-246
english|PSALMS 130:3-8||I wait for the Lord, my soul does wait, and in His word do I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning; more than watchmen for the morning. If thou, O Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with Thee, that Thou mayest be feared. O Israel, hope in the Lord; for with the Lord there is lovingkindness, and with Him is abundant redemption. And He will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. If thou, O Lord, shouldst mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with Thee, that Thou mayest be feared.|HGC-247
english|MICAH 6:8||He has shown thee, O man, (O man) what is good and what the Lord requires of thee But to do justly, (But to do justly) And to love mercy. (And to love mercy) And to walk humbly with thy God.|HGC-248
english|PSALMS 121||I will lift up my eyes to the mountains; from whence shall my help come? My help comes from the Lord, Who made heaven and earth. He will not allow your foot to slip; He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper; the Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun will not smite you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will protect you from all evil; He will keep your soul. The Lord will guard your going out and your coming in From this time forth and forever. From whence shall my help come? My help comes from the Lord, Who made heaven and earth.|HGC-249
english|ROMANS 8:1||There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.|HGC-250
english|PROVERBS 3:5-8||Trust in the Lord with all your heart, don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight. Do not be wise in your own eyes; fear the Lord and turn from evil. It will be healing to your body, and refreshment to your bones. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, don't lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight.|HGC-251
english|PSALMS 113:1-6||From the rising of the sun to its setting the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations; His glory is above the heavens. Praise the Lord! Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be His name the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever. Who is like the Lord our God, Who is enthroned on high, Who humbles Himself to behold the things that are in heaven and on earth? From the rising of the sun to its setting the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations; His glory is above the heavens.|HGC-252
english|WONDERFUL AND MARVELOUS||Wonderful and marvelous is Jesus to me. Sweeter than the honey and the honeycomb is He. Jesus is real; He'll never fail. I will serve Him now and throughout all eternity. He is always with me as I'm walking along. I can hear a melody; He's given me a song. Jesus is real; He'll never fail. I will serve Him now and throughout all eternity.|HGC-253
english|ISAIAH 53:5-6||All we like sheep have gone astray we've turned everyone to his own way; but the Lord has laid on Him the iniquity of us all. He bore our sorrows and our shame. He took away our sin. And He has healed us by His stripes, and made us whole again. All we like sheep have gone astray we've turned everyone to his own way; but the Lord has laid on Him the iniquity of us all.|HGC-254
english|PSALMS 17:15||As for me I shall behold Thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied with Thy likeness when I awake, when I awake, when I awake.|HGC-255
english|LOVE FOUND A WAY||Wonderful love that rescued me, sunk deep in sin, guilty and vile as I could be no hope within; when every ray of light has fled, O glorious day! Raising my soul from out the dead, love found a way. Love found a way to redeem my soul, love found a way that could make me whole; love sent my Lord to the cross of shame, love found a way, O praise His holy name! Love bro't my Savior here to die on Calvary, for such a sinful wretch as I, how can it be? Love bridged the gulf twixt me and heav'n, taught me to pray; I am redeemed, set free, forgiven, love found a way. Love found a way to redeem my soul, love found a way that could make me whole; love sent my Lord to the cross of shame, love found a way, O praise His holy name! Love opened wide the gates of light to heaven's domain, where in eternal power and might Jesus shall reign; love lifted me from depths of woe to endless day, there was no help in earth below, love found a way. Love found a way to redeem my soul, love found a way that could make me whole; love sent my Lord to the cross of shame, love found a way, O praise His holy name!|HGC-256
english|GOD ANSWERS PRAYER||God answers prayer in the morning, God answers prayer at noon, God answers prayer in the evening, so keep your heart in tune. Jesus may come in the morning, Jesus may come at noon, Jesus may come in the evening, so keep your heart in tune.|HGC-257
english|ISAIAH 40:31||They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint! teach me, Lord; teach me, Lord, to wait. Teach me, Lord, to wait down on my knees till in Your own good time You answer my pleas, teach me not to rely on what others do, but to wait in prayer for an answer from You. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint! teach me, Lord; teach me, Lord, to wait.|HGC-258
english|LUKE 12:32,40; JAMES 5:8||Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father has chosen gladly to give you the kingdom. You too, be ready; for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect. You too be patient; strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. For the coming of the Lord is at hand.|HGC-259
english|I LOVE TO TELL THE STORY||I love to tell the story of unseen things above, of Jesus and His glory, of Jesus and His love. I love to tell the story, because I know 'tis true; it satisfies my longings as nothing else can do. I love to tell the story, twill be my theme in glory to tell the old, old story of Jesus and His love. I love to tell the story, more wonderful it seems than all the golden fancies of all our golden dreams. I love to tell the story, it did so much for me; and that is just the reason I tell it now to thee. I love to tell the story, twill be my theme in glory to tell the old, old story of Jesus and His love. I love to tell the story, tis pleasant to repeat what seems, each time I tell it, more wonderfully sweet. I love to tell the story, for some have never heard the message of salvation from God's own holy Word. I love to tell the story, twill be my theme in glory to tell the old, old story of Jesus and His love. I love to tell the story, for those who know it best seem hungering and thirsting to hear it like the rest. And when, in scenes of glory, I sing the new, new song, twill be the old, old story that I have loved so long. I love to tell the story, twill be my theme in glory to tell the old, old story of Jesus and His love.|HGC-260
english|EPHESIANS 1:7-8||In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, through His blood. According to the riches of His grace, which He lavished upon us, which He lavished upon us.|HGC-261
english|NO ONE EVER CARED FOR ME LIKE JESUS||I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus since I found in Him a friend so strong and true; I would tell you how He changed my life completely, He did something that no other friend could do. No one ever cared for me like Jesus, there's no other friend so kind as He; no one else could take the sin and darkness from me, O how much He cared for me. All my life was full of sin when Jesus found me, all my heart was full of misery and woe; Jesus placed His strong and loving arms about me, and He led me in the way I ought to go. No one ever cared for me like Jesus, there's no other friend so kind as He; no one else could take the sin and darkness from me, O how much He cared for me. Ev'ry day He comes to me with new assurance, more and more I understand His words of love; but I'll never know just why He came to save me, till some day I see His blessed face above, No one ever cared for me like Jesus, there's no other friend so kind as He; no one else could take the sin and darkness from me, O how much He cared for me.|HGC-262
english|II TIMOTHY 1:7||For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound, sound mind. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord for all He has done. For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound, sound mind.|HGC-263
english|LEAD ME TO CALVARY||King of my life, I crown Thee now, Thine shall the glory be; lest I forget Thy thorn-crowned brow, lead me to Calvary. Lest I forget Gethsemane; Lest I forget Thine agony; Lest I forget Thy love for me, Lead me to Calvary. Show me the tomb where Thou wast laid, tenderly mourned and wept; angels in robes of light arrayed guarded Thee whilst Thou slept. Lest I forget Gethsemane; Lest I forget Thine agony; Lest I forget Thy love for me, Lead me to Calvary. Let me like Mary, through the gloom, come with a gift to Thee; show to me now the empty tomb, lead me to Calvary. Lest I forget Gethsemane; Lest I forget Thine agony; Lest I forget Thy love for me, Lead me to Calvary. May I be willing, Lord, to bear daily my cross for Thee; even Thy cup of grief to share, Thou hast borne all for me. Lest I forget Gethsemane; Lest I forget Thine agony; Lest I forget Thy love for me, Lead me to Calvary.|HGC-264
english|I HAVE DECIDED TO FOLLOW JESUS||I have decided to follow Jesus, I have decided to follow Jesus, I have decided to follow Jesus No turning back, no turning back! Though no one join me, still I will follow, though no one join me, still I will follow, though no one join me, still I will follow No turning back, no turning back! The world behind me, the cross before me, the worldbehind me, the cross before me, the world behind me,the cross before me No turning back, no turning back!|HGC-265
english|ISAIAH 26:3, 1:18, JOHN 8:32, 36||Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee. Because he trusteth in Thee, he trusteth in Thee, O Lord. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red as crimson, they shall be as wool. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. If the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.|HGC-266
english|PSALMS 89:1||I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing, I will sing. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing of the mercies of the Lord. With my mouth will I make known Thy faithfulness, Thy faithfulness. With my mouth will I make known Thy faithfulness to all generations. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever; I will sing of the mercies of the Lord.|HGC-267
english|JESUS PAID IT ALL||I hear the Savior say, Thy strength indeed is small, Come to me, I'll be thy stay, Find in Me thine all in all." Jesus paid it all. All to Him I owe. sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow. Lord, now indeed I find Thy pow'r and Thine alone, Can change the leper's spots, And melt the heart of stone. Jesus paid it all. All to Him I owe. sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow. For nothing good have I Whereby Thy grace to claim I'll wash my garments white In the blood of Calvary's Lamb. Jesus paid it all. All to Him I owe. sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow. And when, before the throne, I stand in Him complete, Jesus died my soul to save," My lips shall still repeat. Jesus paid it all. All to Him I owe. sin had left a crimson stain, He washed it white as snow.|HGC-268
english|ISAIAH 55:1, REVELATION 22:17||Every one who thirsteth, come ye to the waters, He that hath no money, come ye, buy and eat. Every one that thirsteth come ye to the waters, yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price. And the Spirit and the bride say, "Come." and let the one who hears say, "Come." and let the one who's thirsty come. Let the one who wishes take the water of life without cost. Every one who thirsteth, come ye to the waters, He that hath no money, come ye, buy and eat. Every one that thirsteth come ye to the waters, yea, come buy wine and milk without money and without price.|HGC-269
english|I KNOW WHOM I HAVE BELIEVED||I know not why God's wondrous grace To me He hath made known, Nor why, unworthy, Christ in love Redeemed me for His own. But "I know Whom I have believed, And am persuaded that He is able To keep that which I've committed Unto Him against that day." I know not how this saving faith To me He did impart, Nor how believing in His Word Wrought peace within my heart. But "I know Whom I have believed, And am persuaded that He is able To keep that which I've committed Unto Him against that day." I know not how the Spirit moves, Convincing men of sin, Revealing Jesus through the Word, Creating faith in Him. But "I know Whom I have believed, And am persuaded that He is able To keep that which I've committed Unto Him against that day." I know not what of good or ill May be reserved for me, Of weary ways or golden days Before His face I see. But "I know Whom I have believed, And am persuaded that He is able To keep that which I've committed Unto Him against that day." I know not when my Lord may come, At night or noonday fair, Nor if I'll walk the vale with Him, or "meet Him in the air." But "I know Whom I have believed, And am persuaded that He is able To keep that which I've committed Unto Him against that day."|HGC-270
english|HOLD TO GOD'S UNCHANGING HAND||Time is fill'd with swift transition; Naught of earth unmoved can stand. Build your hopes on things eternal; Hold to God's unchanging hand! Trust in Him who will not leave you, Whatsoever years may bring; If by earthly friends forsaken, Still more closely to Him cling! Covet not this world's vain riches, That so rapidly decay. Seek to gain the heav'nly treasures; They will never pass away! When your journey is completed, If to God you have been true, Fair and bright the home in glory, Your enraptured soul shall view! Hold to God's unchanging hand. Hold to God's unchanging hand. Build your hopes on things eternal; Hold to God's unchanging hand!|HGC-271
english|HE'S ABLE||He's able, He's able, I know He's able. I know my Lord is able to carry me through. He heals the broken-hearted, and He sets the captive free. He made the lame to walk again, and He caused the blind to see. Oh yes, He's able, He's able, I know He's able. I know my Lord is able to carry me through.|HGC-272
english|COLOSSIANS 3:12-15, 17||And so, as those who have been chosen of God, Holy and beloved, Put on a heart of compassion, Kindness, humility, and patience; And whatever you do in word or deed Do it all in the name of the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, Do it all in the name of the Lord. Giving thanks through Him to God. Giving thanks through Him to God. Bear with another, And forgive each other, too. Whoever has a complaint Just as the Lord forgave so also should you. And whatever you do in word or deed Do it all in the name of the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, Do it all in the name of the Lord. Giving thanks through Him to God. Giving thanks through Him to God. And beyond all these holy things Put on love, in perfect unity. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, To which indeed you're called in one body. And whatever you do in word or deed Do it all in the name of the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, Do it all in the name of the Lord. Giving thanks through Him to God. Giving thanks through Him to God.|HGC-273
english|PSALMS 8:1, 3-4||O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth. When I consider Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon the stars, which Thou hast ordained; what is man, that Thou art mindful of Him? And the son of man, that Thou visitest him. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth!|HGC-274
english|I'VE GOT A RIVER OF LIFE FLOWING||Oh, I've got a river of life flowing out of me, makes the lame to walk and the blind to see, opens prison doors, sets the captives free. Oh, I've got a river of life flowing out of me. Spring up, oh well, within my soul. Spring up, oh well, and make me whole. Spring up, oh well, and give to me that life abundantly.|HGC-275
english|HE LIVES||I serve a risen Savior, He's in the world today; I know that He is living, whatever men may say; I see His hand of mercy, I hear His voice of cheer, and just the time I need Him He's always near. He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today! He walks with me and talks with me Along life's narrow way. He lives, He lives, salvation to impart! You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart. In all the world around me I see His living care, and though my heart grows weary, I never will despair; I know that He is leading through all the stormy blast, the day of His appearing will come at last. He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today! He walks with me and talks with me Along life's narrow way. He lives, He lives, salvation to impart! You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart. Rejoice, rejoice, O Christian, lift up your voice and sing eternal hallelujahs to Jesus Christ the King! The hope of all who seek Him, the help of all who find, none other is so loving, so good and kind. He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today! He walks with me and talks with me Along life's narrow way. He lives, He lives, salvation to impart! You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart.|HGC-276
english|BENEATH THE CROSS OF JESUS||Beneath the cross of Jesus I fain would take my stand, the shadow of a mighty rock within a weary land; a home within the wilderness, a rest upon the way, from the burning of the noontide heat and the burden of the day. Upon the cross of Jesus, mine eye at times can see the very dying form of One who suffered there for me; and from my smitten heart with tears, two wonders I confess, the wonder of His glorious love, and my unworthiness. I take the cross of Jesus for my abiding place; I ask no other sunshine than the sunshine of His face; content to let the world go by, to know no gain nor loss: my sinful self my only shame, my glory all the cross.|HGC-277
english|JOSHUA 1:9, MATTHEW 28:19, 20||Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous! Do not tremble or be dismayed. Do not tremble or be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous! Do not tremble or be dismayed. Do not tremble or be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.|HGC-278
english|PSALMS 119:97-98||Oh how I love Thy law, O Lord! It is my meditation all the day. Thy commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for they are ever mine. For they are ever mine.|HGC-279
english|GALATIANS 2:20, COLOSSIANS 3:1||I am crucified with Christ; nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me; and the life I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved, me and gave Himself for me. Who loved me, Who loved me, Who loved me and gave Himself for me; and the life I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, Who loved me, and gave Himself for me. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on the things of the earth. For you are dead and your life is hidden with Christ in God. You are dead, you are dead, you are dead and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Set your affections on things above, not on the things of the earth. For you are dead and your life is hidden with Christ in God.|HGC-280
english|COME, THOU FOUNT||Come, Thou Fount of ev'ry blessing, tune my heart to sing Thy grace; streams of mercy, never ceasing, call for songs of loudest praise. Jesus sought me when a stranger, wand'ring from the fold of God; He to save my soul from danger, interposed His precious blood. O to grace how great a debtor daily I'm constrained to be. Let that grace, Lord, like a fetter, bind my wand'ring heart to Thee. Teach me, Lord, some rapturous measure, meet for blood-bought hosts above; while I sing the countless treasure of my God's unchanging love. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it; prone to leave the God I love: yet Thou, Lord, hast deigned to seal it, with Thy Spirit from above. Rescued thus from sin and danger, purchased by the Savior's blood, may I walk on earth a stranger, as a son and heir of God.|HGC-281
english|SALVATION SONG||I just really want to thank you, Lord, for this life you've given to me. I'm not just talking about this worldly life, but the life of eternity. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for eternity. Well I've been down so many roads before and I've never filled this empty spot. But now that I've believed and asked You into my heart, I want to burn out for You red hot, yes Lord Jesus, for You red hot. I just really want to thank you, Lord, for this life you've given to me. I'm not just talking about this worldly life, but the life of eternity. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for eternity.|HGC-282
english|EPHESIANS 1:18-23||I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, and what is the surpassing greatness of His power toward us who believe. these are in accordance with the working of the strength of His might Which He brought about in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead, and seated Him at His right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And He put all things in subjection under His feet, and gave Him as head over all things to the church, which is His body, the fulness of Him Who fills all in all. Which is His body, the fulness of Him Who fills all in all.|HGC-283
english|JOHN 5:24||He who hears My word, and believes on Him who sent Me, has eternal life, and shall not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life.|HGC-284
english|GLORY TO GOD||Glory to God, He has lifted me up, He has lifted me up, I know; glory to God, He has lifted me up, and that's why I love Him so. I love Him more and more; I love Him more and more; and when, by faith, I reach the other shore, I'll praise Him more and more, and when, by faith, I reach the other shore, I'll praise Him more and more.|HGC-285
english|ISAIAH 55:12||For you shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace; the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.|HGC-286
english|ART THOU WEARY, HEAVY LADEN?||Art thou weary, heavy laden, art thou sore distressed. Come to me," saith One, " and coming, be at rest." Hath He marks to lead me to Him, if He be my guide. In His feet and hands are wound-prints, and His side." Is there diadem, as Monarch, that His brow adorns? Yea, a crown in very surety, but of thorns." If I find Him, if I follow, what His guerdon here? Many a sorrow, many a labor, many a tear." If I still hold closely to Him, what hath He at last? Sorrow vanquished, labor ended, Jordan passed." If I ask Him to receive me, will He say me nay? Not till earth, and not till heaven pass away." Finding, following, keeping, struggling, is He sure to bless. Saints, apostles, prophets, martyrs, answer, 'Yes.'"|HGC-287
english|ABIDE WITH ME||Abide with me, fast falls the eventide, the darkness deepens Lord, with me abide; when other helpers fail and comforts flee, Help of the helpless, O abide with me! Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day, earth's joys grow dim, its glories pass away; change and decay in all around I see O Thou who changest not, abide with me! I need Thy presence every passing hour what but Thy grace can foil the tempter's pow'r? Who like Thyself my guide and stay can be? Through cloud and sunshine, O abide with me! Hold Thou Thy cross before my closing eyes, shine through' the gloom and point me to the skies: heav'n's morning breaks, and earth's vain shadows flee in life, in death, O Lord, abide with me.|HGC-288
english|ISAIAH 60:1-3||Arise, shine; for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness will cover the earth, and deep darkness the peoples; but the Lord will rise upon you, and His glory will appear upon you. And nations will come to your light, but the Lord will rise upon you, and His glory will appear upon you. Kings to the brightness of your rising. Arise, shine; for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you.|HGC-289
english|THANK YOU, LORD||Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you, Lord,for making me whole! Thank you, Lord, for giving to me Thy great salvation so rich and free. Thank you, Lord, for dying for me! Thank you, Lord, for dark Calvary! Thank you, Lord, for blood that was shed; Now I am living, though once was dead.|HGC-290
english|AMAZING GRACE||Amazing grace! how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found, was blind but now I see. Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved; how precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed! Through many dangers, toils and snares I have already come; tis grace hath brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home. When we've been there ten thousand years, bright shining as the sun, we've no less days to sing God's praise then when we'd first begun.|HGC-291
english|EXODUS 15:11||Who is like Thee, O Lord, among the gods. Who is like Thee, O Lord, majestic in holiness, awesome in praises, working wonders? Who is like Thee, O Lord?|HGC-292
english|Leaning On The Everlasting Arms||What a fellowship, what a joy divine, leaning on the everlasting arms; what a blessedness, what a peace is mine, leaning on the everlasting arms. Leaning, leaning, safe and secure from all alarms; Leaning, leaning, leaning on the everlasting arms. O how sweet to walk in this pilgrim way, leaning on the everlasting arms; O, how bright the path grows from day to day, leaning on the everlasting arms. Leaning, leaning, safe and secure from all alarms; Leaning, leaning, leaning on the everlasting arms. What have I to dread? What have I to fear, leaning on the everlasting arms? I have blessed peace with my Lord so near, leaning on the everlasting arms. Leaning, leaning, safe and secure from all alarms; Leaning, leaning, leaning on the everlasting arms.|HGC-293
english|1 JOHN 4:7-8||Beloved, let us love one another, For love is from God; And every one that loveth is Born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not Knoweth not God, for God is love. Beloved, let us love one another; First John 4, 7 and 8.|HGC-294
english|OPEN OUR EYES LORD||Open our eyes, Lord, we want to see Jesus, to reach out and touch Him and say that we love Him. Open our ears, Lord, and help us to listen. Open our eyes, Lord, we want to see Jesus.|HGC-295
english|1 CHRONICLES 29:10,11,13,14||Blessed art Thou, O Lord God of Israel our Father, Forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness And the power and the glory And the victory and majesty, Indeed everything that's in the heavens and the earth; Thine is the dominion, O Lord, Thou dost exalt Thyself as head over all. Now therefore, our God we thank Thee, And praise Thy glorious name. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness And the power and the glory And the victory and majesty, Indeed everything that's in the heavens and the earth; Thine is the dominion, O Lord, Thou dost exalt Thyself as head over all. For all things come from Thee, And from Thy hand we have given Thee. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness And the power and the glory And the victory and majesty, Indeed everything that's in the heavens and the earth; Thine is the dominion, O Lord, Thou dost exalt Thyself as head over all.|HGC-296
english|PSALMS 34:1-4||I will bless the Lord at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make its boast in the Lord; The humble shall hear it and rejoice. O magnify the Lord with me, And let us exalt His name together. I sought the Lord and He answered me, And delivered me from all my fears.|HGC-297
english|HARK! THE HERALD ANGELS SING||Hark! The herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King; Peace on earth, and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled!. Joyful, all ye nations rise, Join the triumph of the skies; With th' angelic host proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem!" Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King." Christ, by highest heaven adored; Christ, the everlasting Lord! Late in time behold Him come, Offspring of the virgin's womb: Veiled in flesh the Godhead see; Hail th' incarnate Deity, Pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus, our Emmanuel. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King." Hail the heaven-born Prince of Peace. Hail the Sun of Righteousness. Light and life to all He brings, Risen with healing in His wings. Mild He lays His glory by, Born that man no more may die, Born to raise the sons of earth, Born to give them second birth. Hark! the herald angels sing, Glory to the newborn King."|HGC-298
english|JOY TO THE WORLD!||Joy to the world! the Lord is come; Let earth receive her King; Let ev'ry heart prepare Him room, And heaven and nature sing, And heaven and nature sing, And heaven and heaven and nature sing. Joy to the earth! the Savior reigns; Let men their songs employ; While fields and floods, Rocks, hills, and plains, Repeat the sounding joy, Repeat the sounding joy, Repeat, repeat the sounding joy. Nor more let sins and sorrows grow, Nor thorns infest the ground; He comes to make His blessings flow Far as the curse is found, Far as the curse is found, Far as, far as the curse is found. He rules the world With truth and grace, And makes the nations prove The glories of His righteousness, And wonders of His love, And wonders of His love, And wonders, wonders of His love.|HGC-299
english|O COME, ALL YE FAITHFUL||O come, all ye faithful, Joyful and triumphant, O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem; Come and behold Him Born the King of angels; O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, Christ, the Lord. Sing, choirs of angels, Sing in exultation, O sing, all ye bright hosts Of heav'n above; Glory to God, All glory in the highest; O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, Christ, the Lord. Yea, Lord, we greet Thee, Born this happy morning. Jesus, to Thee be all glory giv'n; Word of the Father, Now in flesh appearing; O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adore Him, Christ, the Lord.|HGC-300
english|SILENT NIGHT, HOLY NIGHT||Silent night holy night all is calm, all is bright Round yon virgin mother and Child, Holy Infant so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Silent night holy night Shepherds quake at the sight, Glories stream from heaven afar, Heavenly hosts sing alleluia; Christ the Savior is born, Christ the Savior is born. Silent night holy night Son of God, love's pure light, Radiant beams from Thy holy face, With the dawn of redeeming grace, Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth, Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth.|HGC-301
english|WHAT CHILD IS THIS||What Child is this, who, laid to rest, on Mary's lap is sleeping. Whom angels greet with anthems sweet, while shepherds watch are keeping? This, this is Christ the King, Whom shepherds guard and angels sing: Haste, haste to bring Him laud The Babe, the Son of Mary. Why lies He in such mean estate where ox and lamb are feeding. Good Christian, fear - for sinners here the silent Word is pleading. This, this is Christ the King, Whom shepherds guard and angels sing: Haste, haste to bring Him laud The Babe, the Son of Mary. So bring Him incense, gold and myrrh, Come, rich and poor, to own Him, the King of kings salvation brings let loving hearts enthrone Him. This, this is Christ the King, Whom shepherds guard and angels sing: Haste, haste to bring Him laud The Babe, the Son of Mary.|HGC-302
english|The Bread Has Been Broken||Come to the table and worship the Savior Taste what forgiveness is for His mercy will lead us, the grace of God will feed us Making us hungry for more His body was given for you and for me Look on the Cross and believe The Bread has been broken Our eyes have been opened Oh come, Lord, restore and renew The word has been spoken So humble and broken We do all in remembrance of You The Bread has been broken and all those who know Him Believe without touching the scars His death reconciled us, we live sanctified to Become what we already are To Him who loves us and freed us to love Be glory and honor and praise The Bread has been broken Our eyes have been opened Oh come, Lord, restore and renew The word has been spoken So humble and broken We do all in remembrance of You Yeah, yeah All in remembrance of You Da da da da, da da da da In remembrance His body was given for you Look on the cross and believe The Bread has been broken Our eyes have been opened Oh come, Lord, restore and renew The word has been spoken So humble and broken We do all in remembrance of You The Bread has been broken Our eyes have been opened Oh come, Lord, restore and renew The word has been spoken So humble and broken We do all in remembrance of You Oh, all in remembrance of You. Oh, Jesus|HGC-303
english|A Cradle Prayer||Jesus, I love you, my Lord, my life. Where would I be without you? Beautiful savior, my God, my Friend I am in awe of You Here in the quiet, the still, the night, I am in awe of You. Trials may come and friends they may go What really matters is You, my Lord. Jesus, I love you, my Lord, my life Where would I be without you? Here in the quiet, the still, the night, I am in awe of You. Why would you, Creator and King, Come as a baby for all, for me? Beautiful savior, my God, my Friend I am in awe of You, Lord. I am in awe of you.|HGC-304
english|You Alone Are God||You are not a god Created by human hands You are not a god Dependant on any mortal man You are not a god In need of anything we can give By Your plan, thats just the way it is You are God alone From before time began You were on Your throne Your are God alone And right now In the good times and bad You are on Your throne You are God alone Youre the only god Whose power none can contend Youre the only god Whose name and praise will never end Youre the only god Whos worthy of everything we can give You are God Thats just the way it is You are God alone From before time began You were on Your throne Your are God alone And right now In the good times and bad You are on Your throne You are God alone Unchangeable Unshakable Unstoppable Thats what You are You are God alone From before time began You were on Your throne Your are God alone And right now In the good times and bad You are on Your throne You are God alone Unchangeable Unshakable Unstoppable Thats what You are|HGC-305
english|Oh Lord, To You||We will seek you first Lord, You will hear our voices Early in the morning and late in the night. We will sing praises, Giving you the glory, Offering our lives to You a Holy sacrifice. May our praise arise as incense Oh Lord to You. May our worship be a fragrance, Oh Lord to You.|HGC-306
english|Stranger of Galilee||order: In fancy I stood by the shore,one day, Of the beautiful murm'ring sea; I saw the great crowds as they thronged the way Of the stranger of Galilee I saw how the man who was blind from birth, In a moment was made to see; The lame was made whole by the matchless skill Of the stranger of Galilee. And I felt I could love him forever So gracious and tender was He! I claimed Him that day as my Savior This Stranger of Galilee. His look of campassion, His words of love, They shall never forgotten be, When sin-sick and helpless He saw me there, This Stranger of Galilee; He show'd me His hand and His riven side, And He whispered "It was for thee!" My burden fell off at the pierced feet Of the Stanger of Galilee.|HGC-900
english|How Great Thou Art||O Lord my God! When I in awesome wonder Consider all The worlds Thy hands have made I see the stars, I hear the rolling thunder, Thy power throughout The universe displayed Then sings my soul, My Saviour God to Thee; How great Thou art, How great Thou art! When through the woods And forest glades I wander And hear the birds Sing sweetly in the trees; When I look down From lofty mountain grandeur And hear the brook And feel the gentle breeze; Then sings my soul, My Saviour God to Thee; How great Thou art, How great Thou art! And when I think That God, His Son not sparing Sent him to die, I scarce can take it in; That on the cross, My burden gladly bearing, He bled and died To take away my sin; Then sings my soul, My Saviour God to Thee; How great Thou art, How great Thou art! When Christ shall come With shout of acclamation And take me home, What joy shall fill my heart! Then I shall bow In humble adoration And there proclaim, My God, how great Thou are! Then sings my soul, My Saviour God to Thee; How great Thou art, How great Thou art!|HTP-1
english|Great Is Thy Faithfulness||Great is Thy faithfulness, O God my Father, There is no shadow Of turning with Thee; Thou changest now, Thy compassions, they fail not; As Thou hast been Thou forever wilt be. Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; All I have needed Thy hand hath provided Great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me! Summer and winter, And springtime and harvest, Sun moon and stars In their courses above, Join with all nature In manifold witness To Thy great faithfulness, Mercy, and love. Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; All I have needed Thy hand hath provided Great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me! Pardon for sin And a peace that endureth, Thy own dear presence To cheer and to guide; Strength for today And bright hope for tomorrow, Blessings are mine, With ten thousand beside! Great is Thy faithfulness! Great is Thy faithfulness! Morning by morning new mercies I see; All I have needed Thy hand hath provided Great is Thy faithfulness, Lord, unto me!|HTP-2
english|To God Be the Glory||To God be the glory, Great things He hath done, So loved He the world That He gave us His Son, Who yielded Hid life An atonement for sin, And opened the Lifegate That all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the people rejoice! O come to the Father Thro' Jesus the Son, And give Him the glory, Great things He hath done. O perfect redemption, The purchase of blood, To ev'ry believer The promise of God; The vilest offender Who truly believes, That moment from Jesus A pardon receives. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the people rejoice! O come to the Father Thro' Jesus the Son, And give Him the glory, Great things He hath done. Great things He hath taught us, Great things He hath done, And great our rejoicing Thro' Jesus the Son; But purer, and higher, And greater will be Our wonder, our transport, When Jesus we see. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the earth hear His voice! Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, Let the people rejoice! O come to the Father Thro' Jesus the Son, And give Him the glory, Great things He hath done.|HTP-3
english|I Sing The Mighty Power Of God||I sing the Mighty power of God That made the mountains rise, The spread the flowing seas abroad And built the lofty skies. I sing the wisdom that ordained The sun to rule the day; The moon shines full at His command, And all the stars obey. I sing the goodness of the Lord That filled the earth with food; He formed the creatures with His word And then pronounced them good. Lord how Thy wonders are displayed Where're I turn my eye: If I survey the ground I tread Or gaze upon the sky! There's not a plant or flow'r below But makes Thy glories known; And clouds arise and tempests blow By order from Thy throne; While all that borrows life from Thee Is ever in Thy care, And ev'rywhere that man can be, Thou, God, are present there.|HTP-9
english|What Was It, Blessed God?||What was it, blessed God, Led Thee to give Thy Son, To yield Thy well-beloved For us by sin undone? Twas love unbounded led Thee thus To give Thy well-beloved for us. To give Thy well-beloved for us. What led Thy Son, O God, To leave Thy throne on high, To shed His precious blood, To suffer and to die? Twas love unbounded love to us, Led Him to die and suffer thus. Led Him to die and suffer thus. What moved Thee to impart Thy Spirit from above, There-with to fill our heart With heav'nly peace and love? Twas love unbounded love to us Moved Thee to give Thy Spirit thus. Moved Thee to give Thy Spirit thus. What love to Thee we owe, Our God, for all Thy grace! Our hearts may well o'er flow In everlasting praise! We join, O Lord, to praise Thee thus For all The boundless love to us! For all The boundless love to us!|HTP-69
english|When I survey the Wondrous Cross||When I survey the wondrous cross On which the Lord of glory died, My richest gain I count but loss, And pour contempt on all my pride. Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, Save in the death of Christ my God! All the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to His blood. See from His head, His hands, His feet, Sorrow and love flow mingled down! Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, Or thorns compose so rich a crown? Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were an offering far too small: Love so amazing, so divine, Demands my heart, my life, my all.|HTP-121
english|I Know that My Redeemer Liveth||I know that my Redeemer liveth, And on the earth again shall stand; I know eternal life He giveth, That grace and pow'r are in His hand. I know, I know (I know, I know) That Jesus liveth, And on the earth (And on the earth) Again shall stand; I know, I know (I know, I know) That life He giveth, That grace and pow'r (That grace and pow'r) Are in His hand. I know His promise never faileth, The word He speaks, it cannot die; Tho' cruel death my flesh assaileth, Yet I shall see Him by and by I know, I know (I know, I know) That Jesus liveth, And on the earth (And on the earth) Again shall stand; I know, I know (I know, I know) That life He giveth, That grace and pow'r (That grace and pow'r) Are in His hand. I know my mansion He prepareth, That where He is there I may be; O wondrous tho't, for me He careth, And He at last will come for me. I know, I know (I know, I know) That Jesus liveth, And on the earth (And on the earth) Again shall stand; I know, I know (I know, I know) That life He giveth, That grace and pow'r (That grace and pow'r) Are in His hand.|HTP-166
english|Christ Arose||Low in the grace He lay-- Jesus my Saviour! Waiting the coming day-- Jesus my Lord! Up from the grave He arose, (He arose) With a mighty triumph o're His foes; (He arose!) He arose a victor from the dark domain, And He lives forever with His saints to reign. He arose! (He arose!) He arose! (He arose!) Halleluah! Christ arose! Vainly they watched His bed-- Jesus my Saviour! Vainly they seal the dead-- Jesus my Lord! Up from the grave He arose, (He arose) With a mighty triumph o're His foes; (He arose!) He arose a victor from the dark domain, And He lives forever with His saints to reign. He arose! (He arose!) He arose! (He arose!) Halleluah! Christ arose! Death cannot keep his prey-- Jesus my Saviour! He tore the bars away-- Jesus my Lord! Up from the grave He arose, (He arose) With a mighty triumph o're His foes; (He arose!) He arose a victor from the dark domain, And He lives forever with His saints to reign. He arose! (He arose!) He arose! (He arose!) Halleluah! Christ arose!|HTP-167
english|Wonderful Grace of Jesus||Wonderful grace of Jesus, Greater than all my sin; How shall my tongue describe it, Where shall it's praise begin? Taking away my burden, Setting my spirit free; For the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, Sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me. Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name. Wonderful grace of Jesus, Reaching to all the lost, By it I have been pardoned, Saved to the uttermost; Chains have been torn asunder, Giving me liberty; For the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, Sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me. Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name. Wonderful grace of Jesus, Reaching the most defiled, By its transforming power, Making him God's dear child, Purchasing peace and heaven, For all eternity; And the wonderful grace of Jesus reaches me. Wonderful the matchless grace of Jesus Deeper than the mighty rolling sea; Higher than the mountain, Sparkling like a fountain, All sufficient grace for even me. Broader than the scope of my transgressions, Greater far than all my sin and shame; O magnify the precious name of Jesus, Praise His name.|HTP-235
english|Grace Greater Than Our Sin||Marvelous grace of our loving Lord, Grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt, Yonder on Calvary's mount out poured, There where the blood of the Lamb was spilt. Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that is greater than all our sin. Sin and dispair like the sea waves cold, Threaten the soul with infinite loss; Grace that is greater, yes, grace untold, Points to the Refuge, the mighty Cross. Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that is greater than all our sin. Dark is the stain that we cannot hide, What can avail to wash it away? Look! there is flowing a crimson tide; Whiter than snow you may be today. Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that is greater than all our sin. Marvelous, infinite, matchess grace, Freely bestowed on all who believe; You that are longing to see His face, Will you this moment His grace receive? Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, grace, God's grace, Grace that is greater than all our sin.|HTP-237
english|There Is Power in the Blood||Would you be free from The burden of sin? There's pow'r in the blood, Pow'r in the blood; Would you o'er evil a victory win? There's wonderful pow'r in the blood. There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the blood (In the blood) Of the Lamb (Of the Lamb) There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you be free from Your passion of sin? There's pow'r in the blood, Pow'r in the blood; Come for a cleansing to Calvary's tide; There's wonderful pow'r in the blood. There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the blood (In the blood) Of the Lamb (Of the Lamb) There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you be whiter, Much whiter than snow? There's pow'r in the blood, Pow'r in the blood; Sin-stains are lost in its life giving flow; There's wonderful pow'r in the blood. There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the blood (In the blood) Of the Lamb (Of the Lamb) There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the precious blood of the Lamb. Would you do service For Jesus your King? There's pow'r in the blood, Pow'r in the blood; Would you live daily His praises to sing? There's wonderful pow'r in the blood. There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the blood (In the blood) Of the Lamb (Of the Lamb) There is pow'r, pow'r, Wonder working pow'r In the precious blood of the Lamb.|HTP-251
english|When I See the Blood||Christ our Redeemer died on the cross, Died for the sinner, paid all his due; Sprinkle your soul with the blood of the Lamb, And I will pass, will pass over you. When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) I will pass, I will pass over you. ( over you. ) Chiefest of sinners, Jesus will save; All He has promised, that He will do; Wash in the fountain opened for sin, And I will pass, will pass over you. When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) I will pass, I will pass over you. ( over you. ) Judgment is coming, all will be there, Each one receiving justly his due; Hide in the saving sin-cleansing blood, And I will pass, will pass over you. When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) I will pass, I will pass over you. ( over you. ) O great compassion! O boundless love! O loving kindness, faithful and true! Find peace and shelter, under the blood, And I will pass, will pass over you. When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) When I ( When I ) See the blood, ( see the blood, ) I will pass, I will pass over you. ( over you. )|HTP-252
english|When I survey||When I survey the wondrous cross On which the Lord of glory died, My richest gain I count but loss, And pour contempt on all my pride. It was on the Cross He shed His blood, It was there He was crucified; But He rose again, and lives in my heart, Where all is peace and perfect love. Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, Save in the death of Christ my God! All the vain things that charm me most, I sacrifice them to His blood. It was on the Cross He shed His blood, It was there He was crucified; But He rose again, and lives in my heart, Where all is peace and perfect love. See from His head, His hands, His feet, Sorrow and love flow mingled down! Did e'er such love and sorrow meet, Or thorns compose so rich a crown? It was on the Cross He shed His blood, It was there He was crucified; But He rose again, and lives in my heart, Where all is peace and perfect love. Were the whole realm of nature mine, That were an offering far too small: Love so amazing, so divine, Demands my heart, my life, my all. It was on the Cross He shed His blood, It was there He was crucified; But He rose again, and lives in my heart, Where all is peace and perfect love.|HTP-254
english|That Man of Calvary||Fairest of all the earth beside, Chiefest of all unto Thy bride, Fullness Divine in Thee I see, Beautiful Man of Calvary! That Man of Calvary Has won my heart from me, And died to set me free, Blest Man of Calvary! Drinking a dire and dreadful cup, Crucified Jesus lifted up, Bearing our guilt and misery, Sorrowful Man of Calvary! That Man of Calvary Has won my heart from me, And died to set me free, Blest Man of Calvary! Granting the sinner life and peace, Granting the captive sweet release, Shedding His blood to make us free, Merciful Man of Calvary! That Man of Calvary Has won my heart from me, And died to set me free, Blest Man of Calvary! Comfort of all my earthly way, Jesus, I'll meet Thee some sweet day, Center of glory, Thee I'll see, Wonderful Man of Calvary! That Man of Calvary Has won my heart from me, And died to set me free, Blest Man of Calvary! Gathered with Thee eternally, Sharing Thy love by glassy sea, Like Thee forever I shall be, Glorified Man of Calvary! That Man of Calvary Has won my heart from me, And died to set me free, Blest Man of Calvary!|HTP-285
english|Yesterday, Today, Forever||O how sweet the glorious message Simple faith may claim: Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same! Still he loves to save the sinful, Heal the sick and lame, Cheer the mourner, calm the tempest Glory to His name! Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! Glory to His name, Glory to His name; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! He who pardoned erring Peter Never need'st thou fear, He who came to faithless Thomas All thy doubt will clear; He who let the loved disciple On His bosom rest Bids thee still, with love as tender, Lean upon His breast. Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! Glory to His name, Glory to His name; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! He who 'mid the raging billows Walked upon the sea Still can hush the wildest tempest, As on Galilee; He who wept and prayed in anguish In Gethsemane Drinks with us each cup of trembling, In our agony. Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! Glory to His name, Glory to His name; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! As of old He walked to Emmaus, With them to abide, So thru all life's way He walketh, Ever near our side; Soon again shall we behold Him Hasten Lord, the day! But 'twill still be \"this same Jesus,\" As He went away. Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name! Glory to His name, Glory to His name; All may change, but Jesus never Glory to His name!|HTP-302
english|In Tenderness He Sought Me||In tenderness He sought me, Weary and sick with sin, And on His shoulders brought me Back to the fold again. While angels in His presence sang Until the courts of heaven rang. Oh, the love that sought me! Oh, the blood that bought me! Oh, the grace the brought me to the fold, Wonderous grace that brought me to the fold! He washed the bleeding sin-wounds, And poured in oil and wine; He whispered to assure me, I've found thee, thou art mine;" I never heard a sweeter voice; It made my aching heart rejoice! Oh, the love that sought me! Oh, the blood that bought me! Oh, the grace the brought me to the fold, Wonderous grace that brought me to the fold! He pointed to the nail-prints, For me His blood was shed, A mocking crown so thorny Was placed upon His head: I wondered what He saw in me, To suffer such deep agony. Oh, the love that sought me! Oh, the blood that bought me! Oh, the grace the brought me to the fold, Wonderous grace that brought me to the fold! I'm sitting in His presence, The sunshine of His face, While with adoring wonder His blessings I retrace, It seems as if eternal days Are far to short to sound His praise. Oh, the love that sought me! Oh, the blood that bought me! Oh, the grace the brought me to the fold, Wonderous grace that brought me to the fold! So while the hours are passing, All now is perfect rest; I'm waiting for the morning, The brightest and the best, When He will call us to His side, To be with Him, His spotless bride. Oh, the love that sought me! Oh, the blood that bought me! Oh, the grace the brought me to the fold, Wonderous grace that brought me to the fold!|HTP-310
english|Love Found a Way||Wonderful love that rescued me, Sunk deep in sin, Guilty and vile as I could be-- No hope within; When ev'ry ray of light had fled, O glorious day! Raising my soul from our the dead, Love found a way. Love found a way (a way) To redeem my soul, Love found a way (a way) That could make me whole; Love sent my Lord (my Lord) To the cross of shame, Love found a way, O praise His holy name! Love bro't my Saviour here to die On Calvary, For such a sinful wretch as I, How can it be? Love bridged the gulf, twixt me and heav'n Taught me to pray; I am redeemed, set free forgiven, Love found a way. Love found a way (a way) To redeem my soul, Love found a way (a way) That could make me whole; Love sent my Lord (my Lord) To the cross of shame, Love found a way, O praise His holy name! Love opened wide the gates of light To heav'n's domain, Where in eternal pow'r and might Jesus shall reign; Love lifted me from depths of woe To endless day, There was no help on earth below, Love found a way. Love found a way (a way) To redeem my soul, Love found a way (a way) That could make me whole; Love sent my Lord (my Lord) To the cross of shame, Love found a way, O praise His holy name!|HTP-321
english|Amazing Grace||Amazing grace, how sweet the sound That saved a wretch like me I once was lost but now am found Was blind but now I see T'was grace that taught my heart to fear And grace my fears relieved How precious did that grace appear The hour I first believed Through many dangers toils and snares I have already come Tis grace hath brought me safe thus far And grace will lead me home When we've been there ten thousand years Bright shining as the sun We've no less days to sing God's grace Then when we first begun|HTP-332
english|The Lily of the Valley||I have found a friend in Jesus, He's everything to me, He's the fairest of Ten thousand to my soul; The Lily of the Valley in Him alone I see All I need to cleanse And make me fully whole. In sorrow He's my comfort, In trouble He's my stay; He tells me every care on Him to roll: He's the Lily of the Valley The Bright and Morning Star, He's the fairest of ten thousand to my soul. He all my griefs has taken, And all my sorrows borne; In temptation He's My strong and mighty tower. He has all my sins forgiven, And Him I do adore From my heart, and now He keeps me by His power. Though all the world forsake me, And Satan tempt me sore, Through Jesus I shall safely reach the goal: He's the Lily of the Valley The Bright and Morning Star, He's the fairest of ten thousand to my soul. He will never, never leave me, Nor yet forsake me here, While I live by faith And seek His blessed will; A wall of fire about me, I've nothing now to fear, With His manna He my hungry soul shall fill. Then sweeping up to glory To see His blessed face, Where rivers of delight shall ever roll: He's the Lily of the Valley The Bright and Morning Star, He's the fairest of ten thousand to my soul.|HTP-335
english|Redeemed||Redeemed--how I love to proclaim it! Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed through His infinite mercy, His child, and forever, I am. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. Redeemed and so happy in Jesus, No language my rapture call tell; I know that the light of His presence With me doth continually dwell. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. I think of my blessed Redeemer, I think of Him all the day long; I sing, for I cannot be silent; His love is the theme of my song. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am. I know I shall see in His beauty The King in whose law I delight; Who lovingly guardeth my footsteps, And giveth me songs in the night. Redeemed, redeemed, Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb; Redeemed, redeemed, His child, and forever, I am.|HTP-377
english|What A Friend We Have In Jesus||What a Friend we have in Jesus, All our sins and griefs to bear! What a privilege to carry Everything to God in prayer! O what peace we often forfeit, O what needless pain we bear, All because we do not carry Everything to God in prayer! Have we trials and temptations? Is there trouble anywhere? We should never be discouraged, Take it to the Lord in prayer. Can we find a friend so faithful Who will all our sorrows share? Jesus knows our every weakness, Take it to the Lord in prayer. Are we weak and heavy laden, Cumbered with a load of care? Precious Savior, still our refuge-- Take it to the Lord in prayer. Do thy friends despise, forsake thee? Take it to the Lord in prayer; In His arms He'll take and shield thee, Thou wilt find a solace there.|HTP-460
english|Turn Your Eyes upon Jesus||O soul, are you weary and troubled? No light in the darkness you see? There's light for a look at the Saviour, And life more abundant and free! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim In the light of His glory and grace. Thro' death into life everlasting He passed, and we followed Him there; Over us sin no more hath dominion-- For more than conqu'rors we are! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim In the light of His glory and grace. His word shall not fail you--He promised; Believe Him, and all will be well: Then go to a world that is dying, His perfect salvation to tell! Turn your eyes upon Jesus, Look full in His wonderful face; And the things of earth will grow strangely dim In the light of His glory and grace.|HTP-495
english|Day By Day||Day by day and with each passing moment, Strength I find to meet my trials here; Trusting in my Father's wise bestowment, I've no cause for worry or for fear. He whose heart is kind beyond all measure Gives unto each day what He deems best, Lovingly its part of pain and pleasure, Mingling toil with peace and rest. Ev'ry day the Lord Himself is near me With a special mercy for each hour; All my cares He fain would bear and cheer me. He whose name is Couselor and Pow'r. The protection of His child and treasure Is a charge that on Himself He laid; As thy days, thy strength shall be in measure," This the pledge to me He made. Help me then in ev'ry tribulation So to trust Thy promises, O Lord, That I lose not faith's sweet consolation Offered me within Thy holy word. Help me, Lord, when toil and trouble meeting; E'er to take, as from a father's hand, One by one, the days, the moments fleeting, Till I reach the promised land.|HTP-520
english|Channels Only||How I praise Thee, precious Saviour, That Thy love laid hold of me; Thou hast saved and cleansed and filled me That I might Thy channel be. Channels only, blessed Master, But with all Thy wondrous pow'r Flowing thro' us, Thou canst use us Ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Emtied that Thou shouldest fill me, A clean vessel in Thy hand; With no pow'r but as Thou givest Graciously with each command. Channels only, blessed Master, But with all Thy wondrous pow'r Flowing thro' us, Thou canst use us Ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Witnessing Thy pow'r to save me, Setting free from self and sin; Thou who boughtest to possess me, In Thy fullness, Lord, come in. Channels only, blessed Master, But with all Thy wondrous pow'r Flowing thro' us, Thou canst use us Ev'ry day and ev'ry hour. Jesus, fill now with Thy Spirit Hearts that full surrender know; That the streams of living water From our inner man may flow. Channels only, blessed Master, But with all Thy wondrous pow'r Flowing thro' us, Thou canst use us Ev'ry day and ev'ry hour.|HTP-553
english|A Mighty Fortress Is Our God||A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing; Our helper He, amid the flood Of mortal ills prevailing; For still our anceint foe Doth seek to work us woe; His craft and power are great, And, armed with cruel hate, On earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide, Our striving would be losing; Were not the right Man on our side, The Man of God's own choosing: Dost ask who that may be? Christ Jesus, it is He, Lord Sabaoth, His name, From age to age the same, And He must win the battle. And though this world, with devils filled, Should threaten to undo us, We will not fear, for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us: The Prince of Darkness grim-- We tremble not for him; His rage we can endure, For lo, his doom is sure, One little word shall fell him. That word above all earthly powers, No thanks to them, abideth; The Spirit and the gifts are ours Thro' Him who with us sideth: Let goods and kindred go, This mortal life also; The body they may kill: God's truth abideth still, His kingdom is forever.|HTP-588
english|Thank You Lord||Thank you Lord for saving my soul. Thank you Lord for making me whole. Thank you Lord for giving to me Thy great salvation; so rich and free.|HTP-630
navajo|God Alahgo Naat'anii, Hgo|Come, Thou Almighty King||God Alahgo Naat'anii, Ay'nodziilii, Nihaa nnh, Nihk anilyeed, D nihinant', Hool'k' Hlonii Nl, e baa. Saad Ats's snli'ii, Deen bee hadnh, Nihidiits'h, Nihik'ijiindliih, Nizaad d niNch'i Bee dadiniigingo !nihlh. God Nch'i Diyinii, Ajbee nhlnh, Saad diyingo Beenihi hodlnih, !d ts'd t'k Nihits''dah doya; Bee adziilii. God T'Nndlinii, Hooll'g naa ha'niih, Naa dahwii'niih, Bee nhlnhg, Bee a y'nt'ii Ay'nolningo Danil'i doo.|NHF-1
navajo|T Hlji 'Ahohkh|Come, Thou Fount||T hliji' ahohkahgo Baa hzhogo dahohtaa, Bijooba' doo nineenehii Baa ha' niihgo dahohtaa, Y'aashdi yee dahataaii,  bee shinti doolee, Ay''n yee hsht, !ko  bee baa hashniih. ShiTaa' shk nlwodgo Djiji' shi nn'zh, &innzinii bik'ehgo Y't'ehgo naa deesh, God bits'ji' y'yago Jesus bee shnhoosdzin, Bhdzidii yik'eh deesdl', Bidi t' yee nshiis'nii'. Nijooba' bee shaa hn', !ko t' n''diishyaa Bee ay' shn'ninii  bee shej n' nil. !ko doo y'adeesha da, Doo shidziil dago  baa, Shij t''t' ni doolee, Y'aashdi yah adeeshd.|NHF-2
navajo|Jesus Baa Ha'niih|Glory to His Name||Jesus tsin'anoszid baahji' Sh daaztsgo  bee yisdy !kwii bi di shij baah lyaa, Jesus baa ha'niih. Jesus baa dahohniih, T' b baa dahohniih, Jesus bidi shij baah lyaa, Jesus baa ha'niih. Ay'nolningo yishy, Shij  bii' Jesus yah y, B bitsin'anoszid 'agi Shi yah ant'zh. Jesus bich'i'so t''ntso Nihii'naazinii bi hidohkh, Dsh j hadaat' nidadoohlee, Jesus baa ha'niih.|NHF-3
navajo|Diyin, Diyinii God|Holy, Holy, Holy||Diyin, Diyinii God, Ay'nodziilii, Ts'd abngo nich''go dahwiitaa. Diyin, Diyinii God, Jiinba' d Nidziil, Ta'go T''go T' Ndlinii nil. Diyin, Diyinii God, Ay'nit'ego Nidiy' t''atso nich'i' nidaha. Diyingo ndaal'a' nich'' yaa daat'iih, Hool'g iin  be nhlnh. Diyin, Diyinii God, Do Yit'inii nl, Baahgi't'ii biniinaa doo ni'diiltseh da. Ni t' Diyin nl, ni t'iy dinyin, Hadaat'ii t'iy bee hadint'. Diyin, Diyinii God, Ay'nodziilii, Iinilaii t''t' naa dahaniih doolee. Diyin, Diyinii God, Jiinba' d Nidziil, Ta'go T'' Ndlinii nl.|NHF-4
navajo|She'oola' Bee Dsh' ii'|My Faith Looks Up to Thee||She'oodla' bee dsh', God biYzh nili, Jesus Diyin, Shisosizin diits'h, Bee asd Atso shaah hmdlh, Shik'ijdliih. T' mi t' honlo, Jesus Ay't'ii, T''atsom Bee nhlmih doogo !ni' diilyaa  baa, Doo shididchi da, Shik' ijdliih. Jooba' shaa dini' aah, Bee shij bisziilgo Nneeshdli doo, Jshu dasnts,  baa hadaat'ego Ay' nsh' n doo, Shik' ijdliih. Saad Heinanii nl, Saad bee hinishnanii, Christ sh yn, NiNch'I Diyinii  bee shi honl, Ni yah ansdzaji' Shik'ijdliih.|NHF-5
navajo|Da' Ninsh?|Were You There?||Da'ninash Jesus bi i'oolkaal Nnsh? Da'ninlsh Jesus bi i'oolkaal Nnsh? id t'oo bik'ee shitah hoditidgo nashiinaeh. Da'ninsh Jesus bi i'oolkaal Da'ninsh ti'hooznii'go daazts Nnsh? Da'ninsh ti'hoosnii'o daazts Nnsh? id t'oo bik'ee shitah hoditidgo nashiilnaeh. Da'ninsh ti'hooznii' go daazts Da'ninsh Christ yaa ada'ashziizh Nnsh? Da'ninsh Christ yaa ada'ashxiizh Nnsh? id t'oo bik'ee shitah hoditidgo nashiilnaeh. Da'ninsh Christ yaa ada'ashxiizh Da'ninsh Jesus ts ndaist Nnsh? Da'ninsh Jesus ts ndeist Nnsh? id t'oo bik'ee shitah hoditidgo nashiilnaeh. Da'ninsh Jesus ts ndeist? Da'ninish daaztsd' hansdz Nnsh? Da'ninsh daaztsd'hanadza Nnsh? id bich''go k'ade hadishghash eh,baahashniihgo Da'ninsh daaztsd' hansdz?|NHF-6
navajo|Ay'nolnin|Isn't He Wonderful||Aynolnin, Aynol, Jesus y'nolnin. Dadziits, dazdiizts'', God Bizaad bii' baahane', Jesus Christ  ay'ylnin.|NHF-7
navajo|Christ Bich'i' Nidahoh|O Worship the King||Christ Naat'anii i bits'di' n'ld, Bibee'adzii lii ba adahohtaa, Nihich'ahgi naaghii id hool'd', Aa ha'niih nizh nii an'd'siz. Ay'bodziil, a yogo jooba', Bee adinliidii yee hadt',Bhch'go  k'osdihi nahalin, !d nyoltsoh  yee at''. Bee ak'ijklii ay'nelaa', Bi danch'I d bi adindn, !d nihok'g bee hahodt', T'  dahtoo' d nahatin nndl. eezh t' daniikl, doo nihidziil da , Na t' nidziilgo naa dadznidl, !nihiinilaii nihich'h dnlnii', Nee yisdnhaakaii,nihik'is nl.|NHF-8
navajo|Naa Dahwii'niih|Revive Us Again||Naa dahwii'niih, God, NiYe' t''g  nih daazts d y'aashg andz. Ay't', naa dahwii'niih. Naa dahwii'niih doolee. Ay't', naa dahwii'niih. Nidziil nih' doo. Naa dahwii'niih, God, Nch'i Diyinii baa  bee Yisd'iiniii bdahosiilziid. Christ baa dahohniih,  tsin yaa daaztsago Niha't'e' t''t' nihaah nay'l. Y'aashd' ko'ii, Ay'bodziilii d bee hinii'nago nnihdll.|NHF-9
navajo|God Ay t ii Nihich h Hlo|A Mighty Fortress Is Our God||NihiGod ay bodziil, Ach h holonii ni l , ^id nihk anlwo ,Ooghaii  ani gi Hl t' ak'id ' Ana' nilinii t'ahdii ak'e' di niih yee nihinaalnish, Nidi Godjgo bidziil. T' nih nihidziilii  Bee nihaa hodnon God  din niintinii,  nihich ij nil H t, danohlin, J  Christ Jesus, Bhlni ni L, doo ahgp neh da, ts'da ak'eh didoodlee Nch'i ni'iich'hg  Ti'nihiyoonh nidi Doo nihi daaye' dadoolee, God Bizaad hodnon Nich'I bhdzidii, Doo nanihiina da, God bidoodii Go t''kdaa' bee hoo'a', Saad t'' nidi bee Adziil t''atso bilahgo Bizaad bidziilii hl Nihich'ij nilinii  Binch'I nihee hl Ni' bik' hllnii  atso bidchid,shits's nidi a D' ,God bee bhlnihii Ts'd doo nidoot'ih da.|NHF-10
navajo|Bhlnihii Ay' sh'n|I Love the Lord||Bhlnihii ay' sh'ni,Shi Sodizinsh yiyists'', t''ah shis Ts'a'go baa, T''ahji'baadznsh. Nk'ehdahinii'nng,Ts' Dalahdi di nyin'Ni t''aanne'aw nish , Yisshnti go b Jiihvahnaaahhnisin,N Zh'bik'ehgo sodizin,Naa din'anii,' naadeesh, Naa  ahsiliii dabin. Jiihvah, ha't'sh n'shh,T' 'tso shen lii bi k' ? Shi j bee naa a Hh nisin, !d n hi nish d doolee.|NHF-11
navajo|Nina'ahl Ay't'e|Great is Thy Faithfulness||ShiTaa', God nlinii, na'ahdligo Ni  doo chaha'oh ni nyis da, !d ts'da doo ahgo dlni da, T'hgi nt'dgo ahool' Na'ahdlhg idi ay't' T' kw j nidgo nisth, Nisinii  ni t' bee shaa hly, Bee na'dlhg ay't' Ninhhh nizhngo hasht'eelyaa Wt' naazlii adhasht'edaalyaa, D t''t' yeenihi dahalne', Jiinba' d na'ahdl, daan Shi baahgi't'eii shits'hid'aah Shi honlogo bee chnah nish, T' kw j bee nsht'e dooleeii T''ahay bee shaa jiisnbaad.|NHF-12
navajo|Baa Dahohniih, !chn Nohinii|Praise Him, All Ye Little Children||Baa dahoniih, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n, Baa dahoniih, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n. A y'h'n, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n, A y'h'n, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n. Ahh nohsin, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n, Ahh nohsin, chn nohinii, God ay''o'n.|NHF-13
navajo|Ay't'|How Great Thou Art||\(this song needs work\) ShiDiyin God, nla' bee deinilaii  haasi go shitah nhodiinh, So' nish'igo d ii'ni' diists'a'go T''atsog ne'adziil yaa halne Jooba'ii God nzhi'beenaaha'niih, ShiDiyin God, ay't', Nine'yisdz; Yisdshntinii, Ay'ndziil. Hootsog d dzidi tsin taashago Nizhngo aysh biin' diists'a', Dzi ltahd hzhogo adayiist'iits'a' hoozk'zgo dach'i  Diyin God biYe' Jesus yiedlee'go Tsin 'agi seesy atah sht'i, Tsin'agi seesyi atahsht'i, Tsinbaahji' bidi deezna' ddaazt, Danichx'ii shii' hidoodlego baa. Christ ndago bidiln didoots'igo Shint'azhdi doold'hzh A'oh nishigo bich'' yaa deeshn,ShiDiyin Godn nhlnh dideeshnii.|NHF-14
navajo|He is Lord(w/Navajo)||He is Lord, He is Lord, He is risen from the dead and He is Lord. Ev'ry knee shall bow, Ev'ry tongue confess That Jesus Christ is Lord. Jesus Christ bhlnh,  daaztsd' ndiidz T'dztso bich'i' yaa dazhdoon, Jesus Christ bhlnh.|NHF-19
navajo|Ahhee', Bhlnihii|Thank you Lord||Ahhee', God shiBhlnihii, Hadaat' nshiinidlaa, Ahhee', bee yisd'iildehii idt'jk'e shaa dn'.|NHF-21
navajo|Jesus Alh !nolnin|Fairest Lord Jesus||Jesus Naat'anii Ay'nolnin, God biYe' din sili'ii Ay'nsh'n, N hinishna doo, Nee shee hool'inshi hzh. T'iis danizhn, Hootsonizhn,  ay'nolnin nidi, Christjgo alh, Jesus nitl, Yn bii'd' b bee hashtaa. Shdnnizhn, Oolj'nizhn, So' ad'wt'h dadi'ndn !dt''atso Dadi'ndinii Bilahdi Christ adindn. Kyaht''t' Beenhlnihii, God biye' dinsili'ii bee Baa ha'niihii, Ts'd t''t' K'ad d hool'gb'doolee.|NHF-22
navajo|God Naa !hlya Doo|God Will Take Care of You||T'adoo ni y' hinna doo, God naa hlya doo, Bit'a' biyaagi hinl, God naa hlya doo, God naa hlya doo, T' kw j, t''atsog God naa hlya doo,  naa hlya doo. Yookg nij bidziil doo, God naa hlya doo, Hy' da'ntiing ni di, God naa hlya doo, Nnzinii God neidool, God naa hlya doo, Yee jooba'ii ni hlo doo, God naa hlya doo, Yn bi ynago nidi, God naa hlya doo, Nij bich'i' hzho doolee, God naa hlya doo. Azh nanhontaah nidi, God naa hlya doo, Jesus  bee ha'nln, God naa hlya doo.|NHF-31
navajo|Away in a Manger(Navajo)||Nlidi aw' bits'l doog adin, Bhlnihii Jesus t'ohbik' niilt. Sitiji' wdahd' so' a da'dees dn, Bhlnihii Jesus t'oh yik' ahosh. B ga shii  daa n, a w' ch' n dzid, Ni di B hl ni hii, doo ndi yi cha da. B hl ni hii, ni a y ' n nsh 'n,  baa hoos 'iid ji' shighah g ho ni l. ! ah ji' shi ho n l, B hl ni hii, Hool ' g  d a y ' sh n' n. ! ch n t' 'a tso bi k'i jii n dl, Y aash di ho nii dlo go  ni h lh.|NHF-32
navajo|Go Tell It On the Mountain(Navajo)||Dzi gh' g baa da ho ne', T' 'a tsog baa da ho ne', Dzi gha' di baa da ho ne', Christ yizhch, da doh n. T'e 'go ni da' ni kaa dii Di b y na has t, J 'a kon, y' aash bii'd' Di yin bee i' d dld. Di yin go ni daal 'a ' Y'aashd' da ha taa, Di b y na has t ne  bi y' da haz l'. ' bi ghan bi yi' g ne' Je sus ni h yizh ch, ! ko yis d 'iil de hii Ni haa yi di n '. Na ni tii  nish i go Shee i 'ii 'aah nt'', Je sus  ni s kan go Shi shj  hoo laa. Di yin God yi sis dlaadgo Doo  daa hashniih da, H l bi zaad  k'ad bee S zi go  shii laa.|NHF-33
navajo|Diyingo Ndaal'a' Biyiin Doohts'h|Hark The Herald Angels Sing||Ge'! diyingonidaala Kdaango dahataa, Christ yizhch e baa ha'niih, God,K', nnihidoo'niid, Ni'nidahonees'd' Diyinbich''dahohtaa, Bethlehemgi Christ yizhch, Dadohni godahohtaa. Jesus dsh j bi' dizhch, id k'ad baa dahwii'niih. Christ y'shd' baa haniih, Christ hool'g bhlnh, Ak'id nihaadeet', Ni' nik'ch'ikhbishch, God  ats's yee n y, Din yitanj noy, God  shj 'diilyaa, K'ad God nihi hl T'' aahinii bee hoos'd, Christk' nhodooeeii Iin yi nihaany' Hadaaat' ndadiidlee, K'ad doo n' n'ne da doo, Hool'g hinii' n doo,  bee nihok' din Nch'i bee ndadooch.|NHF-34
navajo|Hzh Nhsdl'|Joy to the World||Hzh nhsdl' ne' bik', Jesus dsh j yizhch, T''ntso danihij Bi yi' badahoo'aah, Biyi'bdahoo'aah, Nigij bi yi' bsohoo'aah. Hzhj nhee ha'', Hzhj shndn, Bee nihitah adideezdld, Wthd' shndn, Wthd' shndn, Beenihitahg adideezdld Hzh nhsdl' ni' bik', God  nihaa joozba', Adahwiss'h bhzinii Bee hzhnhsdl', Bee hzhnhsdl', Beehzh, bee hzh nhsdl'.|NHF-36
navajo|Soti', Da'iinohdlanii|O Come, All Ye Faithful||Nihi dahzhonii, da'iinohdlni, Soti',t' 'ntso Bethlehemg Naat'anii yizhchnh dadnil'ii. Bich'i' nidahokiiklaa, Sot',nidahodiidlaa, Bich'' nidahodiidlaa, Christ bhlnh Christ bich'i' dahohtaa, sin bee baa dahohniih, Diyin nidaal'a'ii nohng, God baa dahohniih, alh daat'ii bee. Aoo', naa hzhogo nihitah yny, Christ Jesus, ni t'iy naa ha'niih le', God Bizaad Nilinii  din sil'|NHF-37
navajo|T'' Dyiid'|O Holy Night||Hodiyint' e'go so' bee da'didingo !ko Yisd' iinii bi'dizhch, Din ti'dahoohe baazhnyago Bij biyi'di haa bi dahzhood. !d ch'skai ye bi ndahoojood, Hl chohoo'i Bee adideezdld. Yaa daahnh Yingonidaala  E dests Christ yizhch yaa dahalne', Ho Diyin t'e'go Christ  bi'dizhch Christ yizhchned' hastyanii So' bik' ehgo  Jesus yaa ykai, Nidi nih  nihe' ooda' t' bee Christ bi' bi'dizhchneji' ninhiidh. Alh naat'anii a'ohgo 'dilyaa, Ti'dahwii'nhe nihid' is hazl'. Daniidzinii  nih bibhzin, Ninant'a' Christ  bhonsiih, NiNaat'anii bich'i' yaa nnh Ay'da'ahnh'nihin. Baahane'  bee hasht'ehodt' Niha't'e' bee dah nihi'diist'ne Bits'aji' nihidiichidii nil. Adh daniidzingo nihi dahzh,  nihihbii'd' bii dahwiitaa. Christ bhlnh, Dzhi'  baa dahohniih. Ay't'ii  bii baa dahone'. Aoo',hoo' g bee baa dahone'.|NHF-40
navajo|Wdahgo Sin Diits'a'\!|There's a Song in the Air\!||Wdahgo sin diits'a'\! So' bits'di'nld\! An sodilzin, Naat'anii yezhchigo  baa h dahzh'd, Ch'ikh biyzh i Ak'id' din yiba't'ii bee hoos'iid, Nihok'g Adidnnihi da hsshogo dahwiitaa,  te'goyaash Aw' hazh'go yicha! So' bee hool'ingo sin nizh D bhlnihii nil. So' bee hool'ingo sin nizh Sin bee adahosiists'. Konk'ehhi daado'go nizh D' sin hadahle'go. Hane'y't'ehii baa Ngi ists'', Bethlehemgi Alahgo Naat'anii yizhch\! Ngijists'', Bethlehemgi Alahgo Naat'anii yizhch\! Ngi ists'',Din dadniid,Christ,Naat'anii nil. Dahojooln', Yisdnihiiniii bich'i' k' daniidzin.|NHF-41
navajo|Doo Iits'a' Da Hodyiid|Silent Night\! Holy Night\!||Doo' its'a' da ho dyiid Chahahee adidn, Nahdi a'  dadez'', Hazh'go aw' ahosh, Y'aashii biyi'd' Jesus biTaa' bin'a' Doo' its'a' da hodyiid Chahahee y'eeldoh, Nida'nikaadii da'ists'', Dadiyinii dahataa, Christ Yisd'iiniii Nihok'gibi'dizhch Doo' its'a' da hodyd So' hoolne' bee hool'in, Ha'a'aah biyaad' hast Naat'anii yada'iiznil, Christ Yisd'iiniii Nihoka'gi bi'dizhch Doo'its'a' da hodyiid So' ll bee hool'in, Nihinaat'anii bich'i' Dadiyiniibi dahwiitaa Christ Yisd'iiniii Nihok'gibi'dizhch|NHF-42
navajo|Christ Bitsin 'agi|At the Cross||Jesus  sh bidi deezna', Bhlnihii daazts, T' b sh nin'deet',  doo bh nishi da. Christ bitsin 'agi ts adidn yiits, Shij Bee nidaaziiy'eeldogo !kwe' ookl Bee shi hoozin, K'ad sh shi hzh t' kw j! Baahgi nsht'ego baa Tsin baahji' ti'hooznii',  jooba' doo bhzinii Ay'''n l! T' t' nt'' chal, Doo hoot'i da hazl,  Christ ay't'ii daazts, Bee diidzih biniy. Ay'tego ti'hooznii',  yee shaah hay', Hesus t' baa dinisht' T'  t' bneesh'.|NHF-49
navajo|When I Survey the Wondrous Cross(Navajo)||Tsin'anoszid yiitsgo nsh', !kwii dinh ay't'ii daazts,  bee shee daa hodzdli'y Baa ynsingo shiilaa. T'adoo bee daa hsh'niih da Bollnihii daaztsn t'iy, Ha't'ida alahgo sh'ninii ye baa din', shh tnzgiz Yee sh'ninii d yn  bidi bi nlgo yiits. D t'ah doo yiiltseh da n t',  hosh deen bi ch'ah bich'ah blyaa. Nahasdzn t'' t' shi'go !ts'sg sha'nidel doo Diyingo ay'shniniii She'iina'atso b silp.|NHF-56
navajo|Jesus Bidi T' Idn|Nothing But the blood||Jesus Christ bidi t'y Bee shs't' shaah tdoogis, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Bee she'iina' hdidoo'n. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgizii, T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Sha't'e' bik' ninly, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Bee shich'' hzh nhsdl'. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgzii, T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Bee she'iina' ndoojoo l, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy T'' atso bilahdi l. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgizii, T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy T''iys bee ha'shn. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy Bee t''kogi nsht'. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgizii, T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn. Jesus Christ bidi t'iy T''ahj' bee hinisha, Jesus Christ bidi t'iy id bee y'aashg dy. ligo deezna'ii, igaigo tszgizii, T bint'ii din, Jesus bidi t' idn.|NHF-62
navajo|Tsin'anoszid Bitaaj|Beneath the Cross of Jesus||Tsin' anoszid bitaaji ' Jesus b yideessii, Ts alahdi bichaha'ohgi shi hasih haz'a Kyah doo na'adhhi T' b shighan nil, Kyah ndnesdz nidi T' b bee bhshyh Tsin'anoszid  baahgi Bi'diisyigi yiits, Baahgi niii nishigo baa ti'hodzooznii', adoo atidineshdliigo Ayooashoniinii id doo bh nidhi dago K'ad d ship bhzin Tsin'anaoszid biyaaji' Chaha 'oh adeeshaal' Baahqhi aaniilii nishliigo baa ti'hidzoobnii Bahasdzaan bikaahi biibi Doo shi honel niid da Shi nbaaha gi atieeibishli Bi ei iibnq nili|NHF-67
navajo|Calvaryji' Shi D'aash|Lead Me to Calvary||She'iina' beenhlnihii Ay't'ii nl, Hosh nich'ah ye bshiynh, Hl ayo yooshnh. Gethsmanii bshiynh, Hl ayo yooshnh  baa, Calvaryji' shi ndt'aash, Hl ayo yooshnh. Nitsn'ootsgo ydeestsego  baa yishcha doo, njels bits'da'deezdingo  naa dahaly. Marygi t'ego yn Yishago na'deesh, Y''diilyaa yegi shich'i'shj nlh. Bneeshdligo tsin'anoszid Bee n hinishna doo, Y n ti'niyoosnii' yeni' ahji' sh'doo nisin.|NHF-73
navajo|He Lives(Navajo)||Jesus hinh nsdli'ii  k'ad b hinishn, Shi bhzingo Jesus Christ t''aan hina. Bizaad chnah shsin, bla' yee shaa jooba', Shide' hoot'iihgo shk a nlwo'. Hin, Hin, Christ Jesus k'ad hin. Shi td'aash, Shich'i' yti', !ts'zi hont'i'g. Hin, Hin, bee yisdn'iildh. Haait'egosha' shi bhzin? Shij bii'di hin. Jesus yee aa jooba'ii ani'gi honish, !d shij nidaazgo b t' bee ha'shn. Shilaj' doo hoot'i da nidi, b shi yi'ash, Nihaa ndoodgii  beidook. Hin, Hin, Christ Jesus k'ad hin. Shi td'aash, Shich'i' yti', !ts'zi hont'i'g. Hin, Hin, bee yisdn'iildh. Haait'egosha' shi bhzin? Shij bii'di hin. Da'iinohdlng,Jesus bich'i' dahohtaa, Christ Jesus  Naat'anii hool'g baa ha'niih. Hasih bdin hye'gi k analwo'ii T' bt'iy kt'ego aa joo ba'. Hin, Hin, Christ Jesus k'ad hin. Shi td'aash, Shich'i' yti', !ts'zi hont'i'g. Hin, Hin, bee yisdn'iildh. Haait'egosha' shi bhzin? Shij bii'di hin.|NHF-81
navajo|There'll Be No Dark Valley(Navajo)||Chahahee din doo ni' bika'gi, Jesus nndzago hodoon. Chahahee din doo no' bika'gi, Bighang anihidoo'ish. Ay'dabninii t'iya / t'iy Bighandi ahdoolee / doolee Chahahee din doo ni' bika'gi, Bighang anihidoo'ish. Dayn din doo ni' bika'gi, Jesus nndzago hodoon. Nidi baa hzhogo idi'doodla, Bighang anihidoo'ish. Ay'dabninii t'iya / t'iy Bighandi ahdoolee / doolee Chahahee din doo ni' bika'gi, Bighang anihidoo'ish. Dajicha din doo ni' bika'gi, Jesus nndzago hodoon. Nidi baa hzhonii dazhdnol'ii, Bighang anihidoo'ish. Ay'dabninii t'iya / t'iy Bighandi ahdoolee / doolee Chahahee din doo ni' bika'gi, Bighang anihidoo'ish.|NHF-87
navajo|How the Fire Fell(Navajo)||Saad  baa hashne'go shi y't'h, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. !ko i hzh shiyi' hadbiid, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. Ts'd bnshniih doolee, y'aashiid' God biNch'i shik'i hoole'. Doold' nizhn da, God biNch'i dinishyingo shiilaa. K'ad shiyi'di y' hlne din, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. !ko hodezyl shiyi' hadbiid, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. Ts'd bnshniih doolee, y'aashiid' God biNch'i shik'i hoole'. Doold' nizhn da, God biNch'i dinishyingo shiilaa. Neeni bits'aji' k'ad shij nzyiz, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. Hl God biNch'ishik'i hoole', Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. Ts'd bnshniih doolee, y'aashiid' God biNch'i shik'i hoole'. Doold' nizhn da, God biNch'i dinishyingo shiilaa. Y'aashdi naat'ch'ah shiba' si, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo.  shij nitlgo yiilaa, Nich'i bee shi'dilzigo. Ts'd bnshniih doolee, y'aashiid' God biNch'i shik'i hoole'. Doold' nizhn da, God biNch'i dinishyingo shiilaa.|NHF-99
navajo|I Have Decided to Follow Jesus(Navajo)||Sh k'ad Jesus bik yisha doo, Sh k'ad Jesus bik yisha doo, Sh k'ad Jesus bik yisha doo, T'' dooda, T'' dooda. Azh t' sh ndi, bik' yisha doo, Azh t' sh ndi, bik' yisha doo, Azh t' sh ndi, bik' yisha doo, T'' dooda, T'' dooda. Nahonit'ah ndi, bik' yisha doo, Nahonit'ah ndi, bik' yisha doo, Nahonit'ah ndi, bik' yisha doo, T'' dooda, T'' dooda. Christ  shilaji', neeni shikd, Christ  shilaji', neeni shikd Christ  shilaji', neeni shikd T'' dooda, T'' dooda.|NHF-136
english|A Beautiful Life(Navajo)||Nizhonigo hinishnaa doo Taa akwii ji shil ilii doo Jo sheiina altsiisi yee Ako ei baa jiinishba doo. Iina kadee / Iina kadee bileeaah / bileeaah Nikeedeeshdaal / Nikeedeeshdaal ei baa hoolzhiizh / ei baa hoolzhiizh Shinaanish yee Shinaanish yee ei neideestseel / ei neideestseel Aadi ei doo / Aadi ei doo eeaah da. / eeaah da. God beawee lanishliigo Sheiina ei bee hoolin doo Hoolaagoo God bichi hash taal Ei bee chanah eeshii doo. Iina kadee / Iina kadee bileeaah / bileeaah Nikeedeeshdaal / Nikeedeeshdaal ei baa hoolzhiizh / ei baa hoolzhiizh Shinaanish yee Shinaanish yee ei neideestseel / ei neideestseel Aadi ei doo / Aadi ei doo eeaah da. / eeaah da. Iina a yoo 'anoolninii Niltoligii ei tei dina Ei baa shiGod ba yideessiil Taa akwii ji choshoolii doo. Iina kadee / Iina kadee bileeaah / bileeaah Nikeedeeshdaal / Nikeedeeshdaal ei baa hoolzhiizh / ei baa hoolzhiizh Shinaanish yee Shinaanish yee ei neideestseel / ei neideestseel Aadi ei doo / Aadi ei doo eeaah da. / eeaah da.|NHF-168
navajo|Jesus Bi Hashne'|I Must Tell Jesus||Nashntaahii  bee bi hashne' T' sah  doo bnaash'aa da Ti'hooshnihgo  shik anlwo' T' bhg  yaa hly. Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' T' sh  doo bneesh 'a da Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' Jesus t'iy  shaa hly. Ach'i' nahwii'n  bee bi hashne' Ay'''n  yee jooba' !dniidgo  yii' hshidoot Yn nidaazii sh a'yool. Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' T' sh  doo bneesh 'a da Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' Jesus t'iy  shaa hly. Yisd'iiniii  bdin nish Yn nidaaz nahji' yool Jesus bi hashne' Jesus bi hashne' Yn nidaazii sh a'yool. Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' T' sh  doo bneesh 'a da Jesus bi hashne', Jesus bi hashne' Jesus t'iy  shaa hly.|NHF-203
navajo|My God Is Real||Doo ayo shi hzin da, Do t'' atsog yisha da, Nidi d t' shi bhzin, God t''aan shii' hinago shi bhzin. God  st'd / God  st'd shi t''aan, / shi t''aan !sh'nng id ola nahalin, / nahalin, J sha't'e' / J sha't'e' shaah tnzgiz, / shaah tnzgiz, God t''aan shii'hinagoshi bhzin. / bhzin. a' God bi naaki danil, !d a' t' yaa daadloh, Nidi sh God shi t''aan, Hl shiyi'di hinago shi bhzin. Jesus yisdshtng, Doo baa hojlne' t'e da, Aoo', iisisdlaad  bijd'. Binch'i yee bibee'adziil shi bhzin.|NHF-220
navajo|Bidib Nishi|His Sheep Am I||God bikyah gn t sik'az yi shi'iis, E'e'ahgo hasyelgo bi naash'aash, Bidib dajlinii t'iy ho dahzh, Bidib nish. T sik'az, bikooh gyaa, hootsog, dzi bigha'di, E'e'ahgo e'e'ahgo Diyin bi naash'aash T'e'go  bikooh gyaa, nahont'ah, dzi bigha'di, Bhlnihii bhlnihii shi yi'ash. Jesus shaa hlua doo, Dishnigo sodiszin, Hootsog shi naa' aashgo shi'iisa, Ndeeshiiii t'ah hd' bk sht'i doo, Nidib nish. Bhlni hii, B hlnihiini ch'' so dis zin Ni a jooba 't' iy bee h'shn, Bhlnini hii, Blnihii,nighahgi hasih, Nidibnishi.|NHF-233
english|What a Friend We Have in Jesus(Navajo)||Doolado Jesus akis da Yiniil ei niha yooyeel Ei taa altso bee baooliih Kad eidi bee na haza Hodeezyeel adaah deiitiigo Nihichi nidahwiina Haala doo tsida taaaltso God bee bil dahwiilne da. Naihonitaahigiish kad Biyigi dahoniidlo? Doo nihaah nahodoolkal da Jesus bee bil hodoolnih Haadisha akis naahodlo Yiniil a yooyeligii? Jesus yeego niheehosin Ei baa bee bil daholne. Da nihidadiil'ahigiish Ei nihinidayiilaad? Jesus tei bee yisdaiildeeh Ei baa bichi sodilzin Da dineesh ei too naa daadloh Boholniihii bil holne? Bigaan yee nichaah deesnii doo Akwii nil hodeezyeel doo.|NHF-240
english|Under His Wings(Navajo)||Bit'a biyaa, sih haz'aagi honishlo, Chahalheel doo nahonitl'a nidi, Ba'iinishliigo t'aa ei shaa ahalya, Naashiis'nii'aadoo be'awee' nishli. Bit'a' biyaa, bit'a' biyaa, Haisha' yits'a shidoolteel, Bit'a' biyaa, akwii honishlo, Hool'aagoo bil honishlo. Bit'a' biyaa, doolado' baa hodlii da, Bidin nishliigo ei bee haahashyiih, Azee' bee naadideeshdaalii ei a din, Ei bee ha'iinishni, ei shil hosho. Bit'a' biyaa, doolado' il ho shoo da, T'aa akwii t'ei bine' ahinishcheeh, Nicho'igii doo atishidooliil da, Hool'aagoo Jesus ei bee yisdee ya.|NHF-259
navajo|Precious Lord, Take My Hand(Navajo)||Atiin doo halding Jesus shi honl, She'iina' k'ade diih, Yishchago sodiszin, Shnts'', shnta', Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo, Bhlnihii, shla' ynta' ch'h dy, Szigo shnsin, Chahahee biyi'g Hool'inji' shi nt'ash, Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo. Chaha'oh haleehgo Chahahee baa halzhish, !d j bi e'e'h, Tbaahgi szigo Nla'bee shnta', Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo. Bhlnihii, shla' ynta' ch'h dy, Szigo shnsin, Chahahee biyi'g Hool'inji' shi nt'ash, Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo. Iin nint'i'ji' Shidziil shnsin,  bee ak'eh dideeshdlee, Jooba' bee n'nish,  bee doo shi ye' da, Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo. Bhlnihii, shla' ynta' ch'h dy, Szigo shnsin, Chahahee biyi'g Hool'inji' shi nt'ash, Ni  hooghang shi nt'ash doo.|NHF-268
english|Glorious Freedom(Navajo)||Baahagi 'ateii shidiniiltsoodgo Bitsa nanishdaahgo cheeh iitiid Nitee Jesus niyaago sheidiichid Shikeh deesdliee yikeh deesdlii. Jesus sheidiichid ei baa shil hozho Ako kad ei doo tihooshniih da Jesus teieidiichiidii niliigo Eidi hoolaagoo shiiii dooleel. Taa daadzaaiii bitsaaji sheedoochid Ajoodla bitsaaji sheedoochid Chahwiideeni bitsaaji sheedoochid Doo il hozho bitsaa sheedoochid. Jesus sheidiichid ei baa shil hozho Ako kad ei doo tihooshniih da Jesus teieidiichiidii niliigo Eidi hoolaagoo shiiii dooleel. Adaa hodzodli biidoo sheedoochid Yodi bidin idliinii aadoo Hani asta bitsaaji sheedoochid Ei taaiiyisi baa shil hoozhood. Jesus sheidiichid ei baa shil hozho Ako kad ei doo tihooshniih da Jesus teieidiichiidii niliigo Eidi hoolaagoo shiiii dooleel. Yee bikee tihooshnihee sheedoochid Shidadiil'aii tishiyoolnihee Christ naashiisniiii taa bisheidiichid Shota yee ei sha yikeh deesdlii. Jesus sheidiichid ei baa shil hozho Ako kad ei doo tihooshniih da Jesus teieidiichiidii niliigo Eidi hoolaagoo shiiii dooleel.|NHF-280
english|He Lifted Me(Navajo)||Jesus ayooashoniigo Shiisiziinii hashtee yii dlaa Adil niiidziih bitsaaji Taa bi shil hanashtaazh. Sei hizhooshdee shil hanashtaazh Baa hozhoogo shil hanashtaazh Chahalheeldee adindiinji Shil hanashtaazh ei baa hashne. Doo diistsiihdaa Hago shilni Tahdii adil niiisiihgo Ei baa bizaad ei yiisisdlaad Taa bi shil hanashtaazh. Sei hizhooshdee shil hanashtaazh Baa hozhoogo shil hanashtaazh Chahalheeldee adindiinji Shil hanashtaazh ei baa hashne. Sha bitaa hosh baa adaazhjil Beesh deeniinii bila yizhgish Doo il hozho ei biyidee Taa bi shil hanashtaazh. Sei hizhooshdee shil hanashtaazh Baa hozhoogo shil hanashtaazh Chahalheeldee adindiinji Shil hanashtaazh ei baa hashne. Kad naaiinaadi shii ate Shiisiziinii bil yaateeh Kotehigii kad baa hashne Taa bi shil hanashtaazh. Sei hizhooshdee shil hanashtaazh Baa hozhoogo shil hanashtaazh Chahalheeldee adindiinji Shil hanashtaazh ei baa hashne.|NHF-282
english|Satisfied(Navajo)||Hoseliidee to sikazii Bika laanaa nisin la. Ei shijei sha neidinoolkas Lago baa akoniizii. Shiyidee yidin nilinee Eidi kad bikiniya. Jesus tei bee hwiih selii kad Ei bidil bee yisdeeya. Doo daadaanii ei yiyaago Bee shidziil yeeni asdiid Yaateehii nisin nidi Taadoo bikiniyaa da. Shiyidee yidin nilinee Eidi kad bikiniya. Jesus tei bee hwiih selii kad Ei bidil bee yisdeeya. Taaaltsoni shee adingo Siih nisingo idiishyaa Ei bee hwiih deeshleel nisingo Niteetoo sha nahasti. Shiyidee yidin nilinee Eidi kad bikiniya. Jesus tei bee hwiih selii kad Ei bidil bee yisdeeya. Hoolaagoo to doo adiihii Inda baah bee iinaanii Aadoo naalyehe dinaii Jesus ei niliigo shii. Shiyidee yidin nilinee Eidi kad bikiniya. Jesus tei bee hwiih selii kad Ei bidil bee yisdeeya.|NHF-300
navajo|Victory in Jesus(Navajo)||Jesus nhaa nyago be'iina' ninidin', Bidi deezna'go baahgi'tii yik'nn'dl, !ko id bee shgi t'ii yisdh'ni doolee,  baa sha't'e' y'ad'ago yisdnsdz. Jesus ak'eh didlnii Ahyel' g sh, Hl tshzgizgo# Yee sh ak'eh deesdl', J hashineezt' d Bidi  yee nshiis'nii', Ay'shos'niidgo baa Sh d' a y'sh'n. Kwe'  Jesus ats's hadaat' ndayiidlaa,  bee yee bidziilii nihich'i' shjn yiilaa,  baa shiyi'sizinii sh hasht'nidlh, bidniid, !ko Jesus  shaa nyago sh ak'eh deesdl'. Jesus ak'eh didlnii Ahyel' g sh, Hl tshzgizgo Yee sh ak'eh deesdl', J hashineezt' d Bidi  yee nshiis'nii', Ay'shos'niidgo baa Sh d' a y'sh'n. Y'aashdi nighan hzhngo n lyaa, shedoo'niid, T nitlg wnaandi olabee da'ntiin, Na'lyii adi nizhngo yee da ha taa doolee, Ak'eh hodeesdli'go sinii adi bee hashtaa doo. Jesus ak'eh didlnii Ahyel' g sh, Hl tshzgizgo Yee sh ak'eh deesdl', J hashineezt' d Bidi  yee nshiis'nii', Ay'shos'niidgo baa Sh d' a y'sh'n.|NHF-306
navajo|Tsddh Ts'd Doo Nigahdi|Where The Roses Never Fade||Kin haal' bich'i' nshdaii )ola bee bii' na'aztiin, Iin tsin bi ndkaadii Tsddh doonigah da. Kwii  tsddh daagango Bee nizhn ye dii, Kin haal' bich'i' nshdadi Tsddh doo nigah d. Da'nt'aii  dabits'aji' Kda'd'nilzin doolee, honootah bii' ha diikah, Tsddh doonigahdi. !adi Jesus  deidiilts, T'adoo bint'ehig, B ad'  shk dez'', Tsddh doonigahdi.|NHF-362